About running loyalty programs with NewStore
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
About running loyalty programs with NewStore
Updated on
Nov 13, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Why loyalty programs
Retailers run loyalty programs to motivate customers to keep buying with their brands and create rich customer insights.
By participating in loyalty programs, loyal customers are rewarded with discounts, access to products and services that are free or exclusive, and more benefits.
More specifically, retailers who run loyalty programs can grow
Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)
by:
Increasing customer purchase frequency using rewards to drive customers to stores and digital channels
Improving customer retention by extending the lifetime period, or reduce churn
Increasing average order value through incentivizing rewards
Moreover, retailers can use loyalty data to analyze consumer data such as:
Engagement channels (incl. location)
Purchase behavior (frequency, spend, channels)
Non-purchase engagement (writing reviews, surveys, events)
Demographics
…and more
Retailers analyze consumer data to segment customers, and tailor marketing efforts towards an improved and personalized consumer experience. Rich consumer insights and brand loyalty enable retailers to differentiate in competitive markets.
Loyalty and omnichannel
Loyalty campaigns across online and offline channels allow maximum flexibility and convenience for the consumer. Omnichannel loyalty enables the integration of all consumer engagements and purchases into one streamlined brand experience. At the same time, consumer data becomes more complete across channels and serves as a continuous learning foundation that improves selling effectiveness.
Running loyalty programs with NewStore
NewStore’s Omnichannel Platform provides a seamless Omnichannel loyalty experience for retail businesses and associates in your stores.
We offer running existing and future loyalty programs using integrations with the retailer’s preferred loyalty provider.
In cases where retailers don’t have a loyalty provider yet, we support them in finding the right partner for their individual business needs, geographic location(s), size of their business, and existing technology ecosystem.
Integrations in the past have included partnering with
Clutch
,
Yotpo
,
Adobe Campaign
, and
Crowdtwist
, which were customized to meet the needs of each retailer requesting.
Use cases
Loyalty integration allows retailers to run a loyalty program in their stores where associates will be able to:
Onboard customers to their loyalty program
Look up loyalty customers to view details such as points collected, tier and available rewards
Assign loyalty points for purchase transactions
Redeem loyalty rewards in the form of discounts
Reconcile loyalty points and rewards in cases of returns or exchanges
For more detailed information on how the use cases work, see
these sample workflows
.
Prerequisites and limitations
The loyalty provider is the source of truth for all loyalty related data.
All business logic around loyalty status level, points, and rewards are managed by the loyalty program and your business.
The loyalty program issues a unique loyalty ID for each customer onboarded to the loyalty program. This ID is used within the platform to identify the customer for loyalty rewards purposes.
Loyalty rewards cannot be redeemed in NewStore as a payment option.
For more information on how to set up a loyalty program integration with Newstore, see
Setting up a loyalty rewards system with NewStore
.
Cost of integration
Platform fees will not increase if retailers already offer a loyalty membership program and choose to integrate it with NewStore by themselves.
It is the responsibility of the retailer to build, maintain and support the integration between the loyalty solution and the NewStore platform. The loyalty partner will charge the retailer. For example, with subscription or license fees, implementation or setup fees, support or maintenance costs, and cost to upgrade to new versions of the integration.
Summary
Investing in an omnichannel loyalty program with NewStore creates opportunities to increase brand loyalty, customer lifetime value and customer insights, while optimizing and streamlining consumer experience.
We offer running existing and future loyalty programs using integrations with the retailer’s preferred loyalty provider. NewStore supports retailers' existing loyalty partners and helps those who still need to find the right one to fit their business needs best.
A quick onboarding will allow them to leverage the power of Omnichannel loyalty from day one.
Related topics
Setting up a loyalty rewards system with NewStore
Configuring loyalty rewards on Associate App
Using NewStore Associate App
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
configuration
customer
discounts
integration
loyalty rewards
selling
selling experience
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use