Set up payments
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Set up payments
Updated on
Feb 13, 2025
Published on Oct 30, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore offers a payment solution that is flexible, secure, and seamlessly integrates into your retail ecosystem. This makes the checkout experience smoother and more efficient for your customers. We support integrations with payment service providers (PSPs), various payment devices, and offer multiple payment methods, giving customers more choice and convenience, which improve their overall shopping experience.
NewStore Associate App enables integrations with payment service providers (PSPs) like Adyen and Worldline, making payment processing quick and seamless. Associates can also handle payments using NewStore Checkout, cash, gift cards, and other external, non-integrated methods.
For external payments that are not integrated with a PSP, associates can still accept payments, though these transactions happen outside of NewStore’s platform and will need to be reconciled with the external payment platform. Retailers have the flexibility to customize which payment options are available in the NewStore Associate App, so associates can easily select the best method during checkout.
Additionally, the Associate App makes managing returns and refunds simple and efficient. Store associates can quickly handle returns, regardless of whether the original transaction was processed through an integrated PSP or an external payment method. Refunds can be issued back to the original payment method or, if preferred, through alternatives like credit card or gift cards, ensuring a smooth experience for both the associate and the customer.
To know how to integrate payments with the NewStore Associate app, see
Payment integration
.
Supported payment modes
With NewStore you can accept payment using any of the following options:
Adyen or Worldline payment devices/ terminals
Gift cards
Cash
NewStore Checkout
Non-integrated/external payment options
Payment devices
NewStore supports a variety of payment devices, providing greater flexibility for retailers and enabling you to accept payments seamlessly from your customers. Our supported payment devices include: various payment terminals available via Adyen or Worldline, Tap to Pay on iPhone, customer phone. For more information, see
Hardware and software support
.
Tap to Pay on iPhone
Tap to Pay on iPhone enables associates to accept payments in Associate App for in-store purchases, without using a payment terminal. To learn how to use this payment option, see Choosing a payment option. Customers can use a physical or digital form of payment that supports NFC. Credit cards that support Tap to Pay on iPhone, digital wallets like Apple Pay and Google Pay, or digital devices that support digital wallets (like the Apple Watch) are currently supported. For more information, see
Setting up Tap to Pay on iPhone
.
Gift card
Retailers can accept payments via a physical or virtual gift card. You can enter the card number manually if the payment service provider supports it. If the balance on the gift card is insufficient, accept the remaining amount via another gift card, credit card or cash payment. For more information, see
Configuring gift card payments
.
Cash management
Retailers can use the NewStore Associate App to process cash payments and refunds within the store, as well as manage and track cash movements within a cash drawer. NewStore offers two types of cash drawer configurations: integrated and non-integrated.
To utilize these features, retailers must first enable cash management capabilities at the global level. Once enabled, this allows for the setup and configuration of cash drawers within each store via the NewStore Associate App. For more information, see
Managing cash in store
.
NewStore Checkout
NewStore Omnichannel Cloud enables you to use NewStore Checkout to accept payments. This payment method is enabled via integration with Adyen and allows customers using an iPhone to pay using their phone instead of relying on the store's payment device. For more information, see
Choosing a payment option
.
Non-integrated/external payment options
The non-integrated or external payment option is available for retailers with stores or locations where the payment systems available in their region are not integrated with NewStore. There may be a specific payment system, such as employee purchase plans, unique credit card processing systems, or geographies where no integrated payment option is available for NewStore. In these situations, retailers can leverage the non integrated (external payment) option to use Associate App to process orders and fulfill the payment transactions outside the NewStore platform. For more information, see
Configuring payment options
.
Managing product pricing dependencies on currency
NewStore allows multiple currencies for product pricing to be used in the platform.
For prices being imported into the platform, NewStore validates the pricing data against the number of decimal places used, and prevents wrongly specified pricing amounts to be injected into the platform.
For example, if the currency is specified as:
USD
and the price has more than 2 decimal places, it is considered as invalid by the platform.
JPY
and the price has any decimal places, it is considered invalid by the platform.
Further reading
Configuring payment options
Using NewStore Associate App
Integrating a payment service provider
Hardware and software support
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
cash drawer
cash management
external payment options
gift card
NewStore checkout
NewStore OMS
newstore platform
payment
payment device
payment options
T2P
Tap to Pay on iPhone
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use