Managing user consent
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Managing user consent
Updated on
Dec 20, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
5 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
The
Digital Markets Act
(DMA) is an EU regulation that ensures that digital platforms are fair and open for all who rely on them. To comply with the DMA, the Shopping App uses UserCentrics as Google-certified partner to provide consent management.
Users have multiple choices when giving their consent. Here's an example:
They can
Accept All
or
Deny All
consent.
Tapping
More information
allows the following selection:
per category
: For example, Analytics, Marketing, etc
per service
: For example, Google Analytics, Facebook, etc
They can change the consent settings in the Shopping App via
Settings - Data Privacy
.
The consent banner layout and the information included in it can be customized in UserCentrics.
Enabling and configuring the consent dialogue
To enable the consent dialogue on the Shopping App, perform the following steps:
Reach out to your Omnichannel Success Manager to start the process.
Provide detailed information about how you process data, using which software, and for which country/legislation. For example, you might have a third-party software processing events from the Shopping App. Such integrations should be included in the data processing services list.
Provide the full name and email address of your employees who need access to UserCentrics.
The NewStore team will set up an initial configuration of UserCentrics based on your input and our platform knowledge. Moreover, our design team will theme the consent view based on your brand guidelines and web references. After that, you will receive access to the platform.
Review the configuration in UserCentrics. You can change the following: a. Data Processing Services (DPS). If you plan to add any custom service, inform the Omnichannel Success Manager in advance, as changes must be made in the apps. b. Privacy Policies, Legal Notice links, and translations c. Theming and layout (buttons, colors, form) of the consent banner
Inform the Omnichannel Success Manager after finalizing the setup. NewStore will proceed to enable the feature in the live apps.
Once this is in place, the Shopping App will start asking for users' consent within the specified jurisdictions and regulatory frameworks. If you don't enable the consent dialogue you may lose visibility on some data depending on the tracking vendor (e.g. Google) and on the region.
Standard configuration
The standard configuration in UserCentrics consists of two configurations. Both configurations are marked as GDPR because a framework must be selected for creating a configuration. Both are named Production as they can be used in the live app.
[brand-name] (Dodici in the screenshots):
It is the configuration that applies to the EU countries.
This configuration should contain the most up-to-date privacy policies and data processing services.
Configuration name and country list can be changed.
[brand-name] (Dodici in the screenshots) Global:
It is a shell configuration that UserCentrics requires.
With it, you can decide to display the same consent banner globally.
This won’t be used in the live app unless required. By default, it’s not linked to any app/domain.
Monitoring opt-in rates
You can monitor the opt-in rates of users in UserCentrics. To do so, select the configuration you want to analyze and click on Analytics in the side menu on the left.
FAQ
When does the Shopping App start tracking?
Tracking is not enabled until NewStore has received the user's explicit consent where user is in required jurisdiction or if the user is out of jurisdiction where consent applies an implicit consent is provided by UserCentrics. This means that the Shopping App does not start or initialize any tracking SDKs until the consent was received.
How does consent impact Google Analytics?
For Google Analytics, the Shopping App uses
Google Consent Mode V2
as required by Google for compliance with the Digital Markets Act. Based on the user's consent, the Shopping App receives each of the types of consent required (i.e. ‘analytics storage’, ‘ad storage’, ‘ad user data’, ‘ad personalization’).
With this fine-grained consent, NewStore can continue to send events to Google Analytics with all consents in a deny state as Google then does not use any of this data for these purposes and falls within their anonymous tracking or cookieless tracking. Google then leverages machine learning modeling to provide estimates for the data which is no longer able to be tracked on an individual basis. Read the following articles to learn more about how Google handles consent:
Google Consent Modelling on their documentation
Google Consent Mode for apps
Info on anonymous tracking for Google
Google introduction to user consent management
Cookieless tracking
What happens if a user denies consent?
When a user denies consent, the Shopping App does not initialize any trackers except for the following two:
For Google Analytics: The Shopping App sends the user’s consent choices to Google. Google then uses “anonymous tracking” or “cookieless tracking”. Google can use these types of tracking to help infer the analytics that would have been provided, without needing to track individually.
For the NewStore Events API: This API is used in NewStore to collect analytics data from apps so that it may be used for third-party integrations if consent is given. If consent is not given, this data is used only internally by NewStore to ensure the functioning of the platform, monitoring, and alerting.
What happens in jurisdictions for which consent is not required?
If the consent dialogue is enabled and a user is not in a jurisdiction for which consent is required (e.g. an extra-European country not subject to European Union legislation), you can configure the consent dialogue to work in one of the following ways:
Apply consent to all users and allow every user from every jurisdiction to receive the same consent request. The same implications in terms of analytics or marketing apply globally.
Apply the consent dialogue only within the jurisdictions where it is required. This means:
Your global audience works with all trackers enabled and no consent requested from the user.
For users within the EU, then they will receive the request for consent and it is handled according to their preferences.
Does the consent configuration support additional trackers in the Shopping App?
Yes. If you use additional trackers, the Shopping App applies the consent received from the user to those as well.
What happens if we make changes to the Data Processing Service?
You can add a new Data Processing Service (DPS) or modify one directly in UserCentrics. However, inform NewStore in advance as changes in the app may be required to properly support the updated DPS list.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
manage user consent
Shopping App
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use