Importing orders
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Importing orders
Updated on
Dec 24, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
You can import two kinds of orders into the NewStore platform, from external systems such as your E-Commerce system, consumer applications or POS systems:
Current orders
are live orders that are yet to be fulfilled. Importing a current order indicates a request to fulfill the order via NewStore.
Use the
create order method
to import orders.
Historical orders
are past orders that have already been fulfilled. Importing past orders allows you to support returns and exchanges for orders originally transacted in other systems. Past orders imported into NewStore Omnichannel Cloud are added to the customer's order history.
Use the
Import historical order method
to import historical orders.
Important
Importing orders can sometimes take longer than usual, depending on the import queue load. If you want to import historical orders within a specific timeline, NewStore recommends that you start importing these orders in advance, keeping possible delays in mind.
Any new address information for an existing customer is added to the customer's profile. If an imported order contains an email address that doesn't exist in the NewStore platform, a new customer is created for the address.
Customer profile
When importing an order, NewStore automatically manages customer profile information by performing the following actions:
For new customer profiles, the import creates the customer profile using the details provided in the order.
For existing customer profiles, injected orders are attached to the profile. Customer profile data remains unchanged.
To ensure high-quality customer data, NewStore also attempts to standardize phone numbers to the E.164 format during injection for new customer profiles. This format requires the country code and "+" sign followed by the national number (e.g. +15555551234 for USA or Canada). This process follows the logic in the sections
Rules for creating new profiles
and
Rules for existing customers
.
Note: If an imported order contains an email address that doesn't exist in NOM, a new customer is created for the address.
Rules for creating new profiles
When the customer profile provided in the import data does not exist yet in the NewStore platform, the following rules apply:
If no phone number is provided with the order, NewStore creates the new customer profile without a phone number.
If an E.164 format phone number is provided, NewStore creates the new customer profile with the provided phone number.
If a non-E.164 format phone number is provided, NewStore attempts to convert it into the E.164 format.
If successful, it then creates a new customer profile with the converted phone number.
If unsuccessful, it then creates a new customer profile with the non E.164 phone number stored as an extended attribute named `injected-invalid-phone-number".
Rules for existing customers
NewStore attaches the order(s) to existing profiles. Customer profile data remains unchanged.
How order import works
Usage guidelines
Only one order can be imported in a request.
An order can only contain one shipping address and one billing address.
An order can contain up to 5 shipments, and each shipment can contain up to a 100 items.
An order can contain only one shipment if the shipping option type is identified by a service level identifier. To import an order with multiple shipments, include the shipping offer token for each shipment.
A shipment in the order cannot contain more than one shipping discount.
An item cannot have more than one item-level discount.
An order cannot have more than one order-level discount.
Payments that are neither authorized nor captured (tokens) are not supported.
Examples
See the
Create order method
to see various examples of orders that can be imported.
Importing orders with many items
Based on the order quantity limits set for your business in the NewStore platform, orders can either be routed immediately, put on hold or automatically canceled. The soft limit and the limit for orders determine the maximum number of items orders can contain in your business. For example, if the soft limit is 300 and the limit is 800, orders with up to 299 items are routed immediately.
Orders with items between 300 and 799 are placed on hold and require approval before they are routed to a location for fulfillment.
Orders with more than 799 items are automatically canceled and not imported.
For help with configuring order quantity limits for your business, contact the
support team
.
Related topics
Create order method
Integrating a fulfillment provider
Reviewing big orders
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
customer
customer profile
customer purchase history
ERP integration
external OMS
fulfillment
integration
item
NewStore OMS
newstore platform
order
order management
platform
routing
shipping
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use