Set up dashboards and analytics
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Set up dashboards and analytics
Updated on
Apr 23, 2025
Published on Oct 17, 2024
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore offers reporting and data insights to help provide you with critical insights into sales performance, inventory levels, and customer activity. NewStore uses
ThoughtSpot
to power liveboards within Omnichannel Insights, providing a visual medium to track all your business data.
Business data reporting is also multi-faceted at NewStore, as the data collected via Omnichannel Insights is also surfaced in Associate App, making it actionable data for associates and business users alike. With data reporting from NewStore, retailers can now make data-driven decisions as it:
Retrieves and assimilates data from multiple sources into a centralized reporting system.
Offers predefined and customizable reports for comprehensive analysis of sales, inventory, and orders across stores.
Facilitates real-time performance monitoring using dashboards and data visualizations in Omnichannel Manager.
Why is reporting important for your business and stores?
Enables timely and informed decision-making by providing a clear view of key metrics.
Improves inventory management and sales tracking, reducing operational inefficiencies.
Supports strategic planning through detailed, multi-channel reporting.
Set up reports via Omnichannel Insights
Data reporting and metrics for your business can be viewed and managed via Omnichannel Manager and Associate App. The following sections give an overview of how data is collected and presented via dashboards and reports at NewStore.
NOM Insights via
Reports
A comprehensive reporting tool that extracts and analyzes data using the
NOM Insights Data Model
. It offers reports on sales, inventory, and order fulfillment across various channels.
Users can filter and customize reports based on their specific needs.
Investigate business data anomalies
Create and monitor real-time business data via liveboards
Create out-of-the-box dashboards and reports
NOM Insights via
Explore
Run ad-hoc search operations on collected data, and use this information to create out-of-the-box reports and dashboards to share with management.
Investigate business data anomalies
Create and monitor real-time business data via liveboards
Create out-of-the-box dashboards and reports
Sales Dashboard (Associate App)
This real-time dashboard allows store associates and managers to monitor daily sales performance via the Associate App. Key metrics such as sales targets, conversions, and revenues are accessible through a mobile-friendly interface, providing quick and easy access to essential data.
Use this tool to set up sales goals or performance indicators for on-the-ground tracking of business performance on a store-by-store basis.
Use cases and examples for leveraging data reports at NewStore
You can use the data analysis and reporting from NewStore in a varied range of situations, where data driven decisions will help you optimize business performance. Some use cases have been described briefly below, which can be investigated in detail in the relevant sections.
Items sold in a store
Retailers can monitor daily and long-term sales performance, comparing results across specific store locations to identify trends and opportunities for improvement.
Inventory Optimization
Retailers can use data to track the lifecycle of items, to optimize inventory and ensure inventory optimization across all stores. Using data to improve inventory visibility  enables retailers to track inventory levels, improve replenishment cycles, monitor product demand, and help reduce waste and prevent stockouts.
Associate and Customer Insights
By analyzing customer purchasing patterns and sales data, retailers can refine their marketing strategies, improve customer targeting, and enhance overall shopping experiences - and consequently also help sales associates meet their performance targets.
Further reading
Omnichannel Manager Insights
Omnichannel Manager Insights Data Model
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
business metrics
data
data model
explore
insights
liveboard
reporting
sales
store performance
ThoughtSpot
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use