Deprecation notices
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Deprecation notices
Updated on
Jun 25, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
11 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Contains information about what has been deprecated or archived in the NewStore platform, including existing integrations, APIs, and features that are either no longer used or have a new version available.
July 2025
SFCC Connector: Automated Deletion of Import Files (30 Days)
Starting
July 23rd, 2025
, NewStore will begin
automatically deleting Salesforce Commerce Cloud (SFCC) Connector import files that are more than 30 days old
. This change enhances our data minimization practices in accordance with GDPR, CCPA, and other applicable privacy regulations.
What DOES NOT change: System of records of import activities such as the
job details
, and
job logs API
endpoints, including:
Job details and logs
Import timestamps
Import content summaries
Any logs or alerts generated during import
Downloading an input file that is less than 30 days old
What DOES change: For files older than 30 days. If you attempt to
download an input file via the download API
, a download link will be present in the API response. However, when clicking the link the response will be a 404 File Not Found.
By removing old import files we reduce the number of locations where personal data resides, which improves compliance and reduces data privacy risk of exposure. As a data processor, NewStore is implementing this change to:
Reduce unnecessary duplication of personal data
Minimize data footprint in accordance with data minimization principles
Maintain only the data necessary to perform our services
Support your compliance obligations as the data controller
January 2025
Deprecation notice for Terminal Management API parameters in the PSP Adyen configuration
What is being deprecated?
NewStore Payment Config API for
PSP Adyen
will stop supporting 2 parameters due to deprecation of the Adyen POS Terminal Management API:
terminal_management_api_url
(sunset date March 31, 2025)
terminal_api_endpoint
(sunset date March 31, 2025)
Instead of these parameters, use a newly added
terminal_api_url
parameter, which is supported in Associate App version 1.58 or later.
Do you need to migrate your existing PSP Adyen configurations?
No, all existing configurations have been migrated and
terminal_api_url
has been set with the base URL from deprecated
terminal_api_endpoint
.
What do you need to do?
If you are setting NewStore Payment Config for PSP Adyen and using Associate App version 1.58 or later, make sure to use
terminal_api_url
instead of the deprecated parameters.
September 2024
Deprecation notice for NewStore Promotions Listing
What is being deprecated?
NewStore Promotions Listing
API
for coupons will stop supporting
partial
flag. The API will behave as if value was set to
true
.
What do you need to do?
If you are using this API and expecting codes to be present in coupon, you need to change your integration to ask for codes for coupon by making a separate API
list codes
call for each coupon.
On November 1, 2024:
Codes array will be removed from coupon entity
July 2024
Sunset date extension for customer API v0
What is changing?
We're extending the sunset date for Customer Profile API v0 and Customer Profile API v1 from August 1, 2024 to
March 31, 2025
.
Ensure that you migrate to
Customer Profile API v2
by March 31, 2025.
When is the sunset event scheduled?
Customer Profile API v0 and v1 will no longer be accessible starting from March 31, 2025.
What do you need to do?
Migrate using our guides:
Migration Guide from v0 to v2
Migration Guide from v1 to v2
Check out the documentation for the new version of the API.
Deprecation notice for Legacy Printing Framework
What is being deprecated?
The legacy printing framework is being deprecated as it no longer supports TSP100 printers. TSP100II, TSP100III and TSP100IV series will still be maintained. Retailers should migrate to the new printing framework, which support default printers, Epson printers as well as bulk printing. The sunset date for the legacy printing framework is July 31, 2024.
What do you need to do?
To migrate to the new printing framework, talk to your implementation partner or contact at NewStore. Also see the documentation
here
, and the
migration guide
.
April 2024
Deprecation notice for NewStore Checkout Classic
What is being deprecated?
NewStore Checkout Classic, which was replaced by NewStore Checkout powered by Adyen Pay by Link, has been deprecated for a year and will be sunset on June 1, 2024.
What do you need to do?
If you still use NewStore Checkout Classic, you should migrate to NewStore Checkout powered by Adyen Pay by Link. For more information, see the
integration guide
which also offers additional steps for migration.
Sunset notice for the providerAccountId in metadata for gift card requests
What is being sunset?
Currently, the platform sends a
providerAccountId
in the metadata for requests to the configured gift card provider. This field is being deprecated and will be removed on the October 1, 2024.
What do you need to do?
Gift card integrations that rely on this field should instead use the store ID specified in the metadata and the store mapping to retrieve the applicable merchant account ID for the gift card provider, if necessary.
Deprecation of release toggle
new_gift_card_overview
What is being deprecated?
As the New Gift Card overview is available for all retailers by default, the Associate App does not use the release toggle
new_gift_card_overview
.
The release toggle
new_gift_card_overview
will be removed from the
Associate App configuration API
on April 22, 2024.
What do you need to do?
If you have used automated scripts for creating new retailer configurations, review the scripts to ensure you remove any references to this release toggle
new_gift_card_overview
in the configuration API.
January 2024
Sunset Extension Notice for Customer Profile API
What is changing?
Important
We're extending the sunset date for Customer Profile API v0 and Customer Profile API v1 from August 1, 2024 to
March 31, 2025
.
We're extending the sunset date for Customer Profile API v0 and Customer Profile API v1 to August 1, 2024.
The Customer Profile API v2 will include the following changes:
Name format change
: The API now includes both first name and last name fields in addition to the full name.
List Orders endpoint
: Access customer order history (available by May 17th, 2024).
When is the deprecation scheduled?
Customer Profile API v0 and v1 will no longer be accessible starting from August 1, 2024.
What do you need to do?
Migrate using our guides:
Migration Guide from v0 to v2
Migration Guide from v1 to v2
Check out the documentation for the new version of the API.
Deprecation notice for legacy Token API and integration users
What is being deprecated?
NewStore deprecates the authentication mechanism for integration users. This affects the authentication of all API endpoints not using API clients.
Integration users
are replaced with
API clients
that follow the Client Credentials Flow.
The deprecation includes the legacy Token API endpoint
https://{{tenant}}.p.newstore.net/v0/token
.
When is the deprecation scheduled?
Integration users and the legacy Token API are deprecated since
January 8th, 2024
. We will announce a sunset date in the next weeks.
What do you need to do?
Follow the migration guide to create an API client and obtain access tokens for the authentication:
Migration guide from integration users to API clients
November 2023
Deprecation notice for legacy EasyPost adapter config API
What is being deprecated?
Retailers can now use a
new public API
for their EasyPost adapter configuration with NewStore. We are therefore deprecating the
previous API
.
The goal of the
new public API
is to allow integrators to configure their EasyPost adapter independently without requesting support from NewStore.
When is the deprecation scheduled?
To streamline the EasyPost Adapter configuration and remove the legacy API, we encourage all users of the legacy API to move to the new API before we remove the legacy API by Q2 2024.
What do you need to do?
To use the new API, only the authentication scheme has changed, as the new API uses a per-tenant authentication mechanism and different URLs. The payloads, however, remain the same.
September 2023
Deprecation notice for legacy reporting dashboards powered by Minubo
When is the deprecation scheduled?
Minubo powered dashboards in Omnichannel Manager will be sunsetted by
February 1, 2024
. The
Dashboards
menu item will be removed from Omnichannel Manager, and no data will be published or made available for download after this timeline.
The deprecation of the feature will start from
October 1, 2023
, when no charts or dashboards will be updated anymore. Existing legacy reporting data will still be available and bug fixes will be performed till February 1, 2024.
What do you need to do?
NewStore recommends you to move your reporting needs to the
Omnichannel Insights
platform. This feature will be enabled for all retailers on
September 18, 2023
, with
Admin
users able to access the new reports by default.
This new reporting feature offers various benefits, including:
Real-time analytics and flexible reporting with customized dashboards and reports
Ability to share dashboards and data within your organization
Optimize operations and improve efficiency
Measure the impact of your omnichannel strategy and adoption across the business
For more information, contact your implementation partner or your contact point at NewStore.
You can also read relevant documentation, such as a guide on
Getting started
with Insights and
Searching Omnichannel Insights in Explore
.
Deprecation notice for Adyen Legacy SDK or Classic Library integrations
When is the deprecation scheduled?
In January 2022, NewStore shared the
End of Support and EOL announcement
from Adyen about their Classic Library terminal integration. The transition deadline for NewStore customers was set as
March 30, 2023
.
Why is the Classic Library being deprecated?
As the official EOL timeline for the Adyen Classic Library integration is approaching (set at March 30, 2024), we want to reiterate that the Adyen Classic Library integrations will be
sunsetted by March 30, 2024
. NewStore will offer
no further support
for any existing configurations that use this integration after this timeline.
What do you need to do?
NewStore strongly recommends that you migrate to using the new Adyen Terminal API integration, which provides improved functionalities and security. To transition to the new process, contact your implementation partner or contact at NewStore responsible for Adyen integration.
For more information, refer to the Adyen documentation and the
setup guide
and
NewStore Checkout guide for Adyen
.
Deprecation notice and End of Life announcement for the legacy printing framework
When is the deprecation scheduled?
The legacy printing framework was deprecated on March 31, 2023. No new functionalities have been added to the framework since then and only critical bugs affecting retailers are being addressed.
Retailers still using the existing legacy printing framework must migrate to the new printing framework by December 31, 2023, which is the EOL timeline for the framework at NewStore. No further support or bug fixes will be offered by NewStore after this.
Why is the legacy printing framework being deprecated?
NewStore recommends migrating to the new printing framework for various reasons, including:
Consistent setup process for all printers, with extended support for additional printer models
Associates can specify which document(s) can be printed via a new printer when it is added in
Printing stations are no longer required, removing complexity and provides improved printing flexibility to associates
Associate App can auto-discover AirPrint and Star printers when connected to the same network
Associates can select default printers to print order fulfill documents faster to increase efficiency
What do you need to do?
To migrate to the new printing framework, talk to your implementation partner or contact at NewStore. Also see the documentation
here
, and the
migration guide
.
Deprecation notice for the Customer v0 and v1 APIs
When is the deprecation scheduled?
The
Customer Profile v0
API and
Customer Profile v1
API will be deprecated by
March 1, 2024
.
Retailers can now use the new
Customer Profile API v2
to create and manage customers in their business. For more information, see the
API docs
.
Important
The new
v2
API is now available in our new
Developer Portal
and not the
API Explorer
(which contains the documentation for the legacy customer profile APIs).
What do you need to do?
If you are already using
Customer Profile v0
or
Customer Profile v1
APIs, see the respective migration guides:
Migrating from v0 to v2
Migrating from v1 to v2
Deprecation notice for 2 Customer API endpoints
Because of a lack of usage in active integrations, NewStore has decided to sunset the following methods:
Find product
Search products
The sunset timeline for these endpoints is
September 15, 2023
. They will stop working after that and no support will be provided for usage of these methods.
What do you need to do?
Retailers can use the Customer API v0
List products
method as an alternative to search for or find products instead.
May 2023
Deprecation of the PUT tenant tax configurations v1 API
The tenant tax configuration replacement function through the PUT API has been deprecated and is not supported anymore by NewStore. Similar functions can be performed through the
PATCH method to partially update the tenant configuration
.
April 2023
End of Life Notice for NewStore Customer Profile v0 API
When is the deprecation scheduled?
Customer Profile API "v0"
will reach the End of Life (EOL) by
March 1, 2024
. Ensure that you update your integrations to use the newer version of the API before that date.
After the EOL date, the
v0
API will no longer be available and requests made to it will fail. We recommend using the latest stable version of the API to ensure the best performance and compatibility with our platform.
What do you need to do?
You can find the latest stable version (
v1
) of the API in the
API documentation
.
For more information about the changes and improvements introduced in the newer API version(s), refer to the API documentation and the
migration guide
.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the
support team
or your point of contact at NewStore.
March 2023
End of Life Notice for NewStore Checkout with Web Drop-in
When is the deprecation scheduled?
The web drop-in version of NewStore Checkout
will be deprecated on March 31, 2023
. NO new functionalities will be added to the NewStore Checkout version that uses the web drop-in configuration. Critical bug fixes will be addressed depending on each case.
The
end of life for this version of NewStore Checkout is September 30, 2023.
Existing customers who are currently using the existing web drop-in configuration can do so until 30 September 2023, after which it is EOL for existing configurations, and NewStore will offer
no further support
.
What do you need to do?
We recommend switching to the updated NewStore Checkout version using Adyen Pay by Link immediately. Follow the instructions in
this guide
to migrate to the new version of NewStore Checkout.
November 2022
End of Support for Staging Cluster 2022.12.31 (EOSL)
Release date
: November, 2022
What’s happening on December 31, 2022
NewStore legacy staging environment will no longer be available or supported by NewStore
URL to be deprecated with end of support on December 31, 2022: https://manager.{brandname}.s.newstore.net/
NEW URL: https://manager.{brandname}-staging.p.newstore.net/
Benefits of using the new cluster
Staging environment reflects the exact ecosystem we run in production
More reliability, as we are adding more automation to our monitoring and alerting systems
Much faster and more stable UAT
Identical SLA on Staging and Production
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
deprecation notice
integration deprecation notice
migration
newstore platform
platform
release notes
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use