Shopping App iOS Core Updates
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Shopping App iOS Core Updates
Updated on
Jul 9, 2025
Published on Mar 20, 2025
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Release v3.50.0
Release date:
June 2nd, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of iOS core v3.50.0.
Improvements
💪
Filter and Sort button review for accessibility
The
Sort
button now changes color based on its active or inactive state. The color, in combination with the dismissal button, helps users understand whether filters or sorting options are currently applied. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Toolbar headings review and tags for accessibility
Updated all toolbar headings to include proper heading tags. VoiceOver can now announce the screen titles as soon as the screen loads. This provides immediate context for users and assists in smoother navigation. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
App download experience
We removed an unused SDK to reduce app size and improve download performance.
Release v3.49.0
Release date:
April 25th, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of iOS core v3.49.0.
New features
🎉
Repeat onboarding screens
You can now redisplay onboarding screens after a set number of days if a user dismissed or did not proceed with the onboarding. Each onboarding screen can be configured with specific
Onboarding Interval Days
.
Contact your Ominchannel Success Manager to enable
Onboarding Interval Days
. This feature is available for new installs from version 3.49.0 onward.
Bug fixes 🐞
Push Notifications Images
Fixed a bug where push notification images were not correctly shown when delivered (3.49.20).
Release v3.48.0
Release date: Month 31, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of iOS core v3.48.0, which brings enhanced dynamic text sizes for accessibility in the Cart, single-choice filters for more granular user filtering, customizable app icons for iOS 18, improved peak time reliability with autoscaling, and a fix where combining favorite synchronization and remembered last size resulted in incorrect product configurations.
Improvements
💪
Cart - Dynamic text sizes for accessibility
Enhanced text resizing in the
Cart
view by improving the responsiveness of various UI elements. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Single-choice filters
Added support for single-choice filters (
equality search
). Now, brands can offer more granular filtering to their user, such as a price discount percentage filter. For example, up to 10%, up to 30%,
or
up to 50%.
Custom app icons
With
iOS 18, users can customize the appearance of their app icons
to be light, dark, or tinted. Since branding is essential in fashion, retailers can create their own icon variations to ensure each one aligns with their brand. To know more, see
Apple Human Interface Guidelines
.
To add your custom app icons, contact your Omnichannel Success Manager and provide the new icons based on the icon template from
Apple Design Resources
.
Peak time reliability with autoscaling
Improved autoscaling across various backend services to ensure further platform reliability and resilience during peak time. Now, you can direct traffic to your Shopping App even more confidently.
Bug fixes 🐞
Favorites Synchronization and Remember Last Size
Fixed an issue where using
Favorite Synchronization
together with
Remember Last Size
feature caused the wrong product configuration to load when opening a product from the
Favorites
list.
Release v3.47.0
Release date: March 10, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of iOS core v3.37.0. This release includes adaptations for accessibility, a new Quick Action Button, SAP Emarsys Custom Events support, and various technical improvements.
New features
🎉
Dynamic text sizes for accessibility
The iOS app supports dynamic text sizes. Users can now adjust text sizes via system settings for a more inclusive experience. This enhancement aligns with the
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
requirements. The act ensures that digital products and services, including e-commerce apps, are accessible to people with disabilities or impairments.
Early Access: Quick Action Button
The
Quick Action Button
allows brands to highlight one essential feature to their Shopping App users, for example, a live chat, loyalty program dashboard, or support hub. Customers can instantly access the key app screen using this button from anywhere in the Shopping App.
This is a floating button that can be dragged up and down, and snapped on the left or right edge. It always remains visible and allows seamless navigation to a defined view or App Extension in the app. The button is configurable by country and language and can be enabled without requiring a new app update.
This feature is in Early Access. Contact your Omnichannel Success Manager to have this enabled.
Improvements
💪
SAP Emarsys Custom Events
Added support for Custom Events in our Emarsys integration. Brands can now easily segment guest users based on their app interactions and target them with more relevant personalized push notifications.
UI elements labels for screen-reader accessibility
Added descriptive labels to the user interface elements to improve screen-reader accessibility. Labels make it easier for visually impaired users to navigate and use the app with a screen-reader. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
UI elements touch target for accessibility
Adjusted the touch areas of user interface elements to improve interaction accessibility. Larger touch targets make it easier for motion impaired users to navigate the app reducing mistaps. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Updated minimum iOS version
Updated the minimum operative system version of our apps to iOS 17. With the vast majority of the user base on the lastest iOS version, reducing backward compability ensures more stability and reliability.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use