Create new visualizations in Omnichannel Insights
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Create new visualizations in Omnichannel Insights
Updated on
Jan 22, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Search data to create Insights reports for your key performance indicator (KPI) use cases. These insights can then be used as custom widgets for your custom liveboards. See
Managing Omnichannel Insights
for more information on sales reports and dashboards and a way to get started with the templates that are provided.
In this guide, we demonstrate a small sample of available metrics. These examples are designed to illustrate a method of querying data that can be used across all the available data:
Net Sales for a specific store
Item-level activity tracking
Returned items by selling associate name
Use cases
To understand the terminologies used in the omnichannel insights, see
Managing Omnichannel Insights
.
Items sold by the store
In this scenario, you can see that the New York 5th Ave store sold a series of items via multiple attributed associates. This is accomplished by filtering the data on
Sale Location = "new york 5th ave"
.
Tracking the lifecycle​ of an item
In this scenario, you can see an e-commerce order was placed, routed to a DC which did not have the expected available inventory and was rejected. The item was then re-routed to the New York 5th Ave store and fulfilled from there.
In order to replicate this data set in
Insights > Explore
, navigate to
Search Data
, add the columns shown in the table above by typing them into search, or double clicking the fields on the left to add them to the search bar, then filter on a single Order or Item Order ID (UUID) that required fulfillment.
Activity schema data model
An activity schema models an entity taking a sequence of activities over time. For example, a sales associate (entity) has completed an item refund (activity).
Each row in the table represents a single activity taken by the entity at a point in time. In other words, it has an activity identifier, an entity identifier, a timestamp, and some basic metadata called features.
The following image shows a representation of the data model, illustrating the exclusive groups of attributes; Common or Activities, Sales, Return, Fulfillment, etc. Columns and Rows orient attributes into groups and their members.
For sales, Sale Price Net is important because it reflects the actual price paid that is reduced by discounts.
Sale Price Net does not include tax.
Sale Price Tax is broken out as a separate field that can be added to Sale Price Net via a formula, if needed.
Searching and pinning data to a liveboard
After you study the data model, you can start querying your data sources to fetch relevant insights from your business. The formulas or data sources can be used as an important tool to analyze a specific metric about your business transactions. Refer to the Net Sales formula example in the above-mentioned section.
Navigate to
Insights
>
Search Data
and select the
wrench
icon to see the new data source or to add a new formula to drill-down to granular level details.
Navigate to
Insights > Search Data
and add a new formula by selecting the
+
sign next to
Formulas..
.
For more information, see
Understand formulas in searches
.
Note
Ensure you are using the latest data set, which introduces Net Sales and fulfillment data.
The templates (such as
Template - Daily Sales
or
Template - Omnichannel
) are using the latest data set and can be copied.
Additionally, while selecting
Search data
:
Select the wrench icon next to
Sources
in the top right corner.
Selecting the
Activities
,
Clienteling Conversations
, or
Clienteling Sales Attribution
data sources.
Below are some examples of how to achieve some common metrics.
How many orders happened today?
The data set is at the item level, so it is important to
unique count Order
to count orders for a time period. Similarly to count Items for a time period, use
unique count Item
. To show how many orders happened today, use the following search query:
Activity Date = today unique count Order Activity Type = item
What are the sales for last week?
For sales,
Sale Price Net
is important because it reflects the actual price paid that is reduced by discounts, and without tax.
Sale Price Tax
is broken out as a separate field that can be added to
Sale Price Net
via a formula, if needed.
To show the sales for last week, use the following search query:
Activity Date = last week Sale Price Net Activity Type = item
Adding something such as
Sale Location
, or
Sale Attributed Associate Name
can let you know which store sold the item, and which associate was credited with the sale.
What is the average order value?
Sale Price Net
is the value of the item without taxes (Price Tax). Take the sum of all of
Sale Price Net
and divide by the unique count of Order IDs. This will require a formula to be able to do this calculation. To see how this works, make a copy of the AOV widget on the default
Daily Sales Overview
.
To add a new formula to a search:
Select the
+
sign next to
Formulas
on the left side of the
Search Data
screen.
Next, use the
Formula Editor
to take the sum of all orders, and divide by the unique count of order IDs. The
Formula Editor
will be shown as follows:
safe_divide (sum ( Sale Price Net ), unique count ( Order ID ))
Saving the formula will automatically add the new field into the search bar and the data will populate. You can build on what has been presented in the templates by going to an existing liveboard, and by clicking
...
in the top right corner of a liveboard/widget and by choosing
Make a copy
.
After the search is complete, pin the answer to a liveboard by selecting
Pin
in the top right corner.
Finding and understanding data fields
To view all available fields, select
Search Data
in
Explore
so the left side of the screen will show all available columns in the data. Hovering over an item in the list will display more detailed descriptions.
Related topics
Managing Omnichannel Insights
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
business metrics
dashboard
data
data model
insights
liveboard
omnichannel manager
platform
reporting
reports
sales
user guide
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use