Campaigns
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Campaigns
Updated on
Feb 20, 2025
Published on Jan 2, 2025
5 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Campaigns allow NewStore Omnichannel Manager users to coordinate Clienteling outreach with associates for company initiatives. Whether you are organizing a large marketing effort for a product launch or a push to re-engage specific segments, Campaigns will provide you the flexibility to reach customers who matter most to your business.
Campaigns allow you to import customer lists from an outside source (CRM/CDP) and then assign customers to specific stores for Clienteling outreach. This approach provides associates with targeted, actionable data to drive customer interactions that align with your business objectives, all within the Associate App.
Campaigns
Campaigns can span multiple stores and include thousands of customers, representing a broader brand-wide communication initiative. However, within a campaign, individual stores only need access to relevant, actionable data. This is called an Outreach List, a subset of customers that a specific store is responsible for and appears in the Associate App for customer engagement.
Each store within a Campaign sees only its own Outreach List. However, Omnichannel Manager users can access and manage the complete campaign view in Omnichannel Manager.
Outreach List
When you upload your CSV to create a Campaign, it automatically organizes the content into an Outreach List for each store. This ensures that only the designated customers are shown to each store for outreach.
An Outreach List assigned to a store appears in the Associate App Clienteling interface, and communication with customers is visible to all store associates to ensure proper handling of the list.
Outreach list examples:
Holidays 2024 Campaign:
You want to run a campaign across your stores to reach a specific customer segment, informing them about new releases and deals as the holiday season approaches.
You can provide templated content to help associates get started, but they can also personalize their clienteling outreach based on their knowledge and relationships with individual customers.
Re-Engagement Campaign:
You have defined a segment in your CRM that represents a high-opportunity set of customers who have fallen out of touch and want to re-engage. You can re-engage these customers through highly personalized clienteling messages, owned by associates at the stores they regularly visited.
User permission
Only Omnichannel Manager roles with the
Manage Clienteling
permission can view and interact with the
Campaigns
and
Outreach List
views in Omnichannel Manager.
Creating a Campaign in Omnichannel Manager
A Campaign across stores requires one CSV upload including the stores and customers you would like. The system automatically divides the CSV into individual Outreach Lists and assigns them to the corresponding stores.
In the Omnichannel Manager menu, go to
Customers
>
Campaigns
.
Click
Create Campaign
at the top right of the screen.
Give your Campaign a name, select the local CSV file and upload.
Click
Save
.
CSV file format requirements
The CSV file used to create the campaign must follow specific formatting rules to be processed correctly. To help with this process, an example file is available in the
Create a Campaign
screen for you to get started.
Points to note:
The CSV must contain only two columns of data.
The first column must have an exact header of “customer email“
The second column must have an exact header of “store id“
Customer emails must be valid. These will be checked and the system will inform if emails could not be found or were invalid.
Store Id must be valid. These will
not
be checked and the system will assign customers to invalid stores if incorrect Ids are provided.
More information on Campaign statuses is available below.
Managing Campaigns
After a Campaign has been created it appears in the Campaigns list.
Each Campaign you create includes a CSV file status and campaign enable/disable details.
CSV file status
:
Processing:
The CSV file has been uploaded and is being analyzed and split into the specific Outreach Lists.
Successful:
The Campaign and the associated Outreach Lists have been processed and are ready to be enabled.
Failed:
The uploaded file had format issues that prevented the successful completion of the Campaign creation. In this case, click the
Failed
status to view more details about the error.
Partially Successful
: The Campaign and its Outreach Lists were created, but some emails contained invalid characters or were not found in the system. Instead of failing the entire process, we provide details about the emails that failed, resulting in a partial success.
Campaign enabled/disabled status:
Each Campaign created will start as disabled
.
This is to allow you to verify that the Campaign and its Outreach Lists were created as expected and then enable them. This also allows you to set up future Campaigns in the system, so they are ready to be enabled with a single click when needed.
When a Campaign is disabled its Outreach Lists will not be visible in the Associate App for any store.
You can have multiple Campaigns in an Enabled or Disabled state at a time. You can keep old Campaigns here as a historical archive, or you can delete them using the delete icon on the right side of the table.
Campaign details
Select any specific Campaign to view more details.
In the details screen, the specific stores included in the Campaign are listed. When the Campaign is enabled, each store will see its own Outreach List in the Associate App, which includes the subset of customers they are responsible for, as defined in the original CSV.
For a Campaign with a
Partially Successful
status, click the purple status icon near the top of the screen to view the emails with issues.
Viewing Outreach Lists in Associate App
Associate App v1.60.0 Version Dependency
The minimum Associate App version required is v1.60.0, released February of 2025, to leverage all current features of Outreach Lists.
Tap the
Chat
icon in the Associate App home screen.
Select
Outreach Lists
at the top of the screen.
Note
Only Outreach Lists from enabled Campaigns are visible.
Select the corresponding
Outreach List
.
Select a customer to start clienteling.
When an associate begins a conversation with a customer from the Outreach List, that customer will also appear under the associates personal
My Inbox
Clienteling tab for associates to track and follow up on the conversation.
Current limitations & troubleshooting
The contents of a Campaign (customers, stores, Outreach Lists) cannot currently be modified once launched. To make a change, delete the Campaign and upload a new CSV.
If a specific store is not seeing an expected Outreach List:
Check that the corresponding Campaign is enabled
Verify that the Store Id listed in the Campaign matches the correct ID. An incorrect ID could assign an Outreach List to a nonexistent store.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use