Using NewStore Associate App for clienteling
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Clienteling in the Associate App
Updated on
Jun 2, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
After Clienteling is enabled for a store, associates can begin communicating directly with customers using the Associate App. This document will provide an overview to using the basic Clienteling features included in the platform.
“Chat” appears in the Associate App homescreen once Clienteling is enabled for a Store.
Pre-requisites
To see Clienteling features, Associates must belong to a store that has Clienteling enabled in NOM and have a phone number that can be used to send and receive Clienteling messages via SMS.
The domain
clienteling.c.p.newstore.net
must be set up according to the
Domain names
documentation.
To use images via MMS in your communication in US or Canada stores, ensure that you whitelist the NewStore S3 bucket domain used for fetching images in Clienteling chat conversations:
newstore-conversation-images-*.s3.amazonaws.com
.
Requesting Clienteling opt-in from customers
To start Clienteling with a customer via NewStore Associate App:
Log into the app.
Tap
and tap
Search
to find the customer you want to offer Clienteling support to.
Tap
Message
.
In the message screen within the Associate App, type an introductory message for the customer, and tap
Send
.
Tap
Send Request
. The customer receives a message with options to start the conversation or opt out of Clienteling.
Opting-out of a conversation
A customer can opt-out of Clienteling conversations for a specific store at any time. A customer that has opted out can opt back in at any time. If a customer opts-out, the Associate App will automatically block any further communication to that customer until they decide to opt back in.
If a customer wishes to opt-out of a conversation, they can reply at any time with one of the following keywords:
STOP
STOPALL
UNSUBSCRIBE
CANCEL
END
QUIT
The customer will receive an automated message confirming their opt out:
Automated opt out confirmation message
In the Associate App, conversations with customers who opted out will show a broken heart, and the associate will not be able to message the customer until they opt-in again:
Associate App conversation showing a customer has opted out
If a customer has opted-out of a conversation and wishes to opt-in again, they need to reply with one of the following keywords:
START
YES
UNSTOP
The customer will receive an automated message confirming they have opted back in:
Automated rejoin confirmation message
Sending Clienteling messages
Once a customer opts in to receive Clienteling messages, you can start sending or receiving messages via the NewStore Associate App. There are a number of ways to enhance your messages:
Using the Quick Replies
Quick Replies are templated messages configured in NOM (See
Managing clienteling
) that associates can use to quickly reply to customers in common situations.
To select a quick reply template, in the chat screen, tap
and then tap
.
Important
You can only send text and links in the message via quick reply templates. Rich media is not supported.
Currently, NewStore only supports quick reply templates in English, even if you have switched to a different language in NewStore Associate App.
Adding a Product Details Link
The
Product Details Link
allows the associate to browse the store catalog and choose specific products to share with the customer. This link then brings the customer to the
Product Details
page, providing images and information about that product.
To choose a product link to send to the customer, in the chat screen:
Tap
Tap
. The
Product Details
screen appears.
To select the link to the product that you want to send to the customer, you can either find it via
Search
or scan the relevant item.
Tap
Add Product Link
and tap
to send.
Adding Images from the Phone
The Associate App also allows the associate to send images which we often see used to help confirm product availability, sizing, color, and more.
This feature is limited to the United States, Canada, and Australia.
To select an image to send:
Tap
and then tap
From the image gallery, tap to select the image you want to send.
When the image has been successfully loaded, a preview is displayed and the
Send
button is enabled.
Tap
to send the image.
Adding a Remote Cart
When Clienteling is enabled for a store, associates can automatically see a
Remote Cart
button at the bottom-right corner of the customer chat screen. Associates can use remote carts via NewStore Associate App to assist in managing and sharing a cart that supports purchasing and shipping products. With remote carts via Associate App, customers can:
View cart details shared with them, such as products, taxes, discounts, total prices, and so on
Pay remotely via any of the payment methods set up and supported by the
Adyen Pay By Link
configuration for your
merchant account
within Adyen.
Automatically receive payment receipts immediately after paying for an order
To create a remote cart for a customer:
Log into the app.
Tap
and tap
Search
to find the customer you want to offer clienteling support to.
Tap
Message
to open the customer's chat screen.
Tap
. A new remote cart is created for the customer.
To add products to the remote cart, scan the items or select them from the catalog.
Send the Remote Cart to the customer by tapping
Share
Click here for more information on Remote Cart functionality.
Managing Conversations
The Associate App allows you to view all of the active conversations (any conversation with activity in the last 120 days) going on in your store two different ways:
To view messages that you, an associate, have sent to a customer via NewStore Associate App, tap
>
Chat
>
My Inbox
.
To view messages that all associates in the store have sent to customers, tap
>
Chat
>
Store Inbox
.
These two views allow associates to cover for each other between shifts as well as provides management insight into ongoing conversations between their team and customers.
If there are unread messages in any of the inboxes, you are notified via a bubble on
Chat
or a banner at the top of the screen when you log into NewStore Associate App.
Important
As a specific phone number assigned to the store is used for Clienteling, only the associates assigned to the same store can view Clienteling messages for the store.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
clienteling
customer
mobile pos
omnichannel manager
remote cart
remote selling
selling
selling experience
store associate
store manager
user guide
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use