Setting up Tap to Pay on iPhone
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Setting up Tap to Pay on iPhone
Updated on
Jan 28, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
11 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
When set up for your business, you can enable associates to accept payments via
Tap to Pay on iPhone
in Associate App for in-store purchases, without using a payment terminal. To learn how to use this payment option, see
Choosing a payment option
.
Customers can use a physical or digital form of payment that supports NFC. Credit cards that support
Tap to Pay on iPhone
, digital wallets like Apple Pay and Google Pay, or digital devices that support digital wallets (like the Apple Watch) are currently supported.
However, associates cannot use
Tap to Pay on iPhone
to process refunds or exchanges in Associate App.
NewStore manages this payment feature via an integration with Adyen as the payment service provider. The setup process requires you to enable
Tap to Pay on iPhone
in Adyen and setting the feature up in NewStore.
Pre-requisites
Tap to Pay on iPhone
is available under the following conditions:
Compatible devices: Please refer to the NewStore supported hardware page for the up to date list of supported devices for Tap to Pay on iPhone.
Supported regions:
US, UK, France, Netherlands, Australia, and Canada with NewStore Associate App version 1.46 or later, running on iOS 17 or later.
Germany and Italy with NewStore Associate App version 1.51 or later, running on iOS 17 or later.
Japan, Sweden, Ireland, Austria, and New Zealand with NewStore Associate App version 1.56 of later, Running on iOS 17 or later.
Supported payment methods:
Supported payment methods vary by geography. Reach out to your Adyen account representative for details regarding specific payment methods and geographies.
Device requirement: The iPhone passcode MUST be enabled on each iPhone that will be used for tap to Pay on iPhone transactions.
Make sure that you use correct credentials when setting up your Merchant Account in Adyen to work with NewStore. Ensure that the web services user for your business has the correct roles, permissions, and credentials for each Merchant Account or on a global level.
The retailer must ensure the Authentication Client Key is defined for the web services user that is used for the NewStore and Adyen Integration. There is an informational message in the Adyen customer area stating that is it mandatory to add at least one allowed origin when using a client key. This message can be ignored, an origin is not needed for this configuration. The requirement is to generate the Client Key only.
If any of these items are not configured, users will encounter an “Internal Error” message when attempting a
Tap to Pay in iPhone
transaction. The retailer needs to work with their Adyen contact to ensure these items are configured properly.
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in Adyen
Important
These steps must be initiated by your business with the help of the Adyen support team.
To enable
Tap to Pay on iPhone
in Adyen, create a support request with Adyen with the following details:
Request to enable
Tap to Pay on iPhone
for the specified
Merchant Account Name
for the retailer within Adyen.
Provide a list of stores where
Tap to Pay on iPhone
will be enabled, and specify which stores are located where, in the US or UK.
Note
Even if you plan to enable this feature incrementally across stores in your business, request for all US and UK stores to be enabled in the request. Use the
Update payment options configuration
method to control this feature across specific stores.
The payment screen for
Tap to Pay on iPhone
transactions has text that can be customized. Within the support request to Adyen, specify the custom text that needs to be displayed in this screen. However, on the payment screen, the word
Pay
is always present, with the custom text appearing after
Pay
under the shopping cart icon in the payment screen. For example,
Pay Dodici
for NewStore test transactions.
Note
The rest of the UI on the screen cannot be changed.
Request for the
Production URL
for the retailer's POS method. You need this URL to configure the NewStore API endpoint to connect to the Adyen backend for the retailer production environment.
The URL for US stores is available in the
Adyen Customer Area
, in
US data center
under
Developer
>
API URL
.
A sample URL is provided here:
https://123e7er123101ab1-Merchantname-checkout-live.adyenpayments.com/checkout/possdk/v68
Note
When updating the NewStore API, ensure that there is no "/" at the end of the URL.
Important
For the UK and Netherlands market, the URL endpoint must use the EU endpoints for merchant authentication.
Ensure that you request the EU Tap to Pay on iPhone endpoints
and not the US endpoints when requesting to enable the feature for UK and Netherlands locations. The sample URL highlights how the endpoint will change to reflect the correct region and country. It is critical that the retailer uses the correct endpoint for their specific country configuration.
For the AU market, the URL endpoint MUST use the AU endpoints for merchant authentication.
Ensure that you request the AU Tap to Pay on iPhone endpoints
and not the US endpoints when requesting to enable the feature for AU locations. The sample URL highlights how the endpoint will change to reflect the correct region and country. It is critical that the retailer uses the correct endpoint for their specific country configuration.
https://987a5as987901ab1-Merchantname-checkout-live.adyenpayments.com/checkout/possdk/v68
You can start
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in Adyen
after Adyen confirms that the feature has been enabled on their side.
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in NewStore
You can start enabling
Tap to Pay on iPhone
by enabling it in Associate App, preparing the devices in the stores for accepting payments, and validating the payment transactions in the app and in NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in Associate App
To enable Associate App to use
Tap to Pay on iPhone
, first set up the Adyen configuration at NewStore, and configure the related payment option via configuration APIs.
Use the
Update PSP Adyen configuration
method and add the production URL received from Adyen as the value for the
sdk_api_endpoint
property.
Note
We recommend that first, you enable
Tap to Pay on iPhone
at the top-level for your business and next, configure the payment option for a specific store. You can use the
Update payment options configuration
method to enable or disable this payment option for specific stores.
Use the
Update payment options configuration
method and add
adyen_pos
as a payment option in
store_mapping
>
payment_options
for each
store_id
where you want to enable
Tap to Pay on iPhone
.
Note
Currently Tap to Pay is only available in stores in the US, UK, Netherlands, France, Australia, Canada, Germany, and Italy.
Verify that Associate App displays the
Tap to Pay
payment option during checkout for the stores where you have enabled the payment option. See
Choosing a payment option
.
Preparing iPhones to use Tap to Pay
The following sections describe the necessary steps to set up Tap to Pay on iPhone:
Accepting initial terms and conditions (must accept T&Cs for each merchant account)
Processing Tap to Pay transactions
Accepting initial terms and conditions
Before launching Tap to Pay on iPhone in a new region, you must first accept the Apple Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) for each merchant account that will be using the feature.
Before accepting the Apple T&Cs, ensure that Tap to Pay on iPhone has been configured for the store beforehand. See
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in Associate App
.
Log into the Adyen customer area and navigate to the specific Merchant Account where Tap to Pay on iPhone will be enabled.
Navigate to the
In Person Payments
menu and select the
Tap to Pay
option.
On the Apple’s Terms of Use page, select the Merchant Account and accept the Apple Terms and Conditions for tap to pay to process live transactions. This must be done for each Merchant Account that will use Tap to Pay on iPhone.
Note
The Apple Terms and Conditions apply to production environments only. NewStore does not provide support for Tap to Pay on iPhone in staging environments.
Initializing iPhones to accept Tap to Pay transactions
Each iPhone to accept Tap to Pay transactions must complete an initialization setup. Perform this step on each iPhone that will be used.
Before following the initialization process on an iPhone, verify the following:
Ensure that Tap to Pay on iPhone has been configured for the store beforehand. See
Enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone in Associate App
.
Ensure that the associate or store personnel preparing the iPhone is assigned to the store where Tap to Pay on iPhone needs to be accepted.
Log into the Associate App.
Create a cart with a product and select
Tap to Pay
>
Proceed
.
The first time an iPhone attempts to process a Tap to Pay transaction, the user will be presented with an initialization screen which counts up from 0 to 100. This screen is presented any time the backend Apple application or the NewStore Associate App has been updated. The initialization screen will only appear for the first transaction and will not display on subsequent transactions.
Once the setup and initialization of the software completes, transactions will process as expected. When users select the Tap to Pay payment option within the Associate App, they will briefly see an "Initiating Transaction" message followed by the prompt to collect payment.
Hold a credit card, digital wallet or device that supports Tap to Pay on iPhone payments against the top of the iPhone. For a list of supported payment devices, see
Pre-requisites
.
Wait for the payment to be processed, and complete the checkout.
Validating payment transactions
Important
Test payment transactions on
Tap to Pay on iPhone
can only be done in your
production
environment. You
cannot
test these payment transactions in your
staging
environment.
To test a payment transaction, follow the same process as described
here
to complete checkout for an order in Associate App with the
Tap to Pay on iPhone
payment method.
When the payment is completed:
The payment status for the order in NewStore Omnichannel Manager is updated to
Captured
and the origin of the payment is displayed as
apple_tap_to_pay
. See
Monitoring orders
.
Go to
Adyen Customer Area
and verify that the payment transaction has been processed in Adyen.
Handling payment transactions in countries with a contactless card limit (UK and CA)
Important
Various markets leverage
Offline PIN
as a Cardholder Verification Method (CVM). This CVM method is most commonly used with physical cards issued in the UK and Canada. It does not apply to or affect digital wallet payments such as Apple Pay.
How is Offline PIN CVM handled with a payment terminal?
In
Offline PIN
CVM, the PIN is validated by the physical card. When a payment terminal is used, the shopper must insert their card into the payment terminal and manually enter the PIN.
How is Offline PIN CVM handled with Tap to Pay on iPhone?
When
Tap to Pay on iPhone
is used for accepting payments, there is no requirement to insert the physical card for cardholder verification. When a customer uses a card for a
Tap to Pay on iPhone
transaction, which requires
Offline PIN
, the associate and customer will see the following message on the iPhone:
Try a different card
.
What should the associate and customer do when the
Try a different card
message is displayed during a Tap to Pay on iPhone transaction?
The associate should ask the customer if they have another contactless option for payment (such as a digital wallet, or another physical card). If the customer does not have an alternative contactless payment method, the associate must cancel the
Tap to Pay on iPhone
transaction, and complete the checkout process using an alternate in-store payment method that is available via Associate App, such as via a physical payment terminal or via NewStore Checkout.
Why would a payment transaction require
Offline PIN
CVM?
In general, a contactless payment transaction will prompt an
Offline PIN
CVM in one of 2 cases:
When the payment transaction amount is above the specified CVM limit. The CVM limit depends upon the payment method. For example, when using Mastercard and Visa cards in the United Kingdom, the CVM limit is set as GBP 100. For Canada, the contactless limit is 250 CAD$. Every transaction that is over the contactless limit in each of these countries will require an
Offline PIN
. The associate should either use a payment terminal or request another form of contactless payment from the customer.
When the card being used for the transaction has reached the maximum number of contactless transactions, it can schedule the current transaction for processing in queue. For example, if the card issuer has a maximum counter set to 5 contactless transactions, the sixth contactless transaction on that card will require an
Offline PIN
(even if the transaction amount is below the CVM limit). There is no standard value for the transaction counter, and varies based on the issuer of the card. The message on the Associate App also displays the same
Try a Different Card
error message.
See this table for some example country-specific CVM limits. For up to date CVM limits based on country, please contact your Adyen account manager.
Country
Contactless Limit
United Kingdom
GBP 100
Canada
CAD 100
Germany
EUR 50
Italy
EUR 50
Handling of international cards within the US
With Associate App v.1.46.0 or later,
Tap to Pay on iPhone
has been enhanced to support PIN entry for customers who want to use their international credit cards (which often require a PIN entry for payment transactions). This new feature enables retailers to expand the use cases and payment options used in-store by now supporting their international customers worldwide.
Customers who are using an international credit card can enter the PIN directly in Associate App, when prompted for it during the payment step of the checkout process.
If the PIN entry is successful, the payment is processed successfully and the checkout process is completed. If PIN entry fails, the app displays an error message stating
Declined - Incorrect PIN
. The customer can then re-enter their PIN. If PIN entry is unsuccessful again, the associate can cancel the payment part of the transaction and select a new payment method for the customer Associate App.
Related topics
Using NewStore Associate App
Configuring payment options
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Adyen
api
Associate App
checkout
config api
external payment options
iPhone
NewStore checkout
newstore platform
payment
payment device
payment options
platform
T2P
Tap to Pay on iPhone
tutorial
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use