Fiscal regulations in France & Monaco
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in France & Monaco
Updated on
Apr 30, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore has partnered with
fiskaltrust
to achieve compliance in France and Monaco. All fiscal transactions are processed through the integration with fiskaltrust.
Fiscal activations
In stores operating in France or Monaco, a store must be fiscally activated before orders can be created via NewStore Associate app.
Fiscal cashbox activation
The fiscal cashbox activation process in France & Monaco includes the following steps:
Fiscal cashbox activation in the fiskaltrust Portal
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Fiscal cashbox activation in the fiskaltrust Portal
For stores in production environment, cashbox activation can be performed through
fiskaltrust Portal
For stores in non-production environment, cashbox activation can be performed through
fiskaltrust Sandbox Portal
Note
If you have a fiskaltrust PosDealer account, you can perform fiscal activation through the
Rollout Management
by using your PosDealer account.
If you don't have a fiskaltrust PosDealer account, contact the
support team
to walk you through the fiscal activation process.
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Important
A store must be already created within the NewStore platform before it can be fiscally activated. For more details, see
Creating a store
.
To fiscally activate a store, a fiscal cashbox can be activated within the NewStore platform via Omnichannel Manager. For more details, see
Activating fiscal cashboxes
.
Following information is required to fiscally activate a store in France or Monaco:
Fiskaltrust cashbox information
Fiskaltrust Cashbox ID - The cashbox ID of the Fiskaltrust cashbox.
Fiskaltrust Access Token - The access token of the Fiskaltrust cashbox.
Retailer corporate/store information
SIRET number - A 14-digit identifier that includes the SIREN number and an additional five-digit number that represents the specific location or establishment of the business.
VAT number - VAT identification number of the legal entity.
APE identifier - APE/NAF code identifies the main branch of activity of the specific location or establishment of the legal entity.
Fiscal cashbox deactivation
Important
Fiscal cashbox deactivation step is only required for cashboxes of the production tenants. For non-production tenants, the fiscal cashbox deactivation step can be skipped.
When a store is no longer operational within the NewStore platform:
The fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform must be deactivated.
The fiscal cashbox within the
fiskaltrust portal
must be deactivated.
To request the deactivation of a fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform, contact the
support team
.
Receipts for stores
Based on fiscal regulations that apply to stores operating in France, these additional features must be included in all receipts:
The following information must be displayed on all receipts:
Fiscal signature, which displays the QR code and the signature items. To modify the fiscal signature template for France, see
Customizing a template
.
Receipt identifier, which can be retrieved through the
receiptId
field of the fiscal signature.
Cashbox name, which can be retrieved through the
cashBoxName
field of the fiscal signature.
Terminal identifier, which can be retrieved through the
terminalId
field of the fiscal signature.
Operation type, such as sales, return, or exchange.
Information of the legal entity, such as the company name, SIRET number, VAT number, and NIF number must be displayed in the header of the receipt.
After printing or emailing the receipt to the customer, any subsequent copies must display the text
Duplicata
in the header of the receipt. Additionally, receipt copies must include a counter that indicates the number of copies, provided as part of the fiscal signature items.
To modify the fiscal signature template for France, see
Customizing a template
.
Important
NewStore platform provides fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Fiscal reports
For stores operating in France or Monaco, required fiscal reports in the given formats are provided by Fiskaltrust and can be accessed in the
fiskaltrust Portal
:
FR-DEX
ArchiveAuditable
Note
Daily, monthly and yearly periodic closures are performed automatically before the first transaction in the next period (day, month, year).
Fiscal archives are automatically generated on monthly and yearly periodic closures. See the guide on
exporting a fiscal archive
.
Fiscal audits
Fiscal audits are not pre-announced and can be conducted by the tax authorities at any given time at the store.
During an audit, auditors may check:
An export of the fiscal archive that contains the POS system data.
The POS system certificate.
For more information about the fiscal reports in France or Monaco, see
Fiscal reports
.
POS system certificate
You can access POS system certificate via:
fiskaltrust portal
by navigating to the
PosOperator
>
Certificates
page.
LNE certificate search engine
by using the following information:
Certificate holder:
NewStore Inc
Certificate number:
38048
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
documents
fiscal cashbox
fiscal regulations
fiscal reports
fiscal signature
fiscalization
france
platform
receipts
taxes
template
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use