Setting up payment service providers
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Setting up payment service providers
Updated on
Feb 19, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
6 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
To manage payments and refunds via NewStore Associate App, NewStore allows you to connect payment devices or terminals to NewStore Associate App and set up a
payment service provider
(PSP) for use in your stores.
Currently, NewStore supports 2 payment service providers:
Adyen POS
: When using Adyen as a PSP in the store, see this
Adyen setup guide
.
Worldline POS
: When using Worldline as a PSP in the store, see this
Worldline setup guide
.
Adyen payments
You can connect your Adyen payment device or
payment card reader
to NewStore Associate App via the
Adyen Terminal API
Adyen Terminal API
Adyen Terminal API is the modern, cloud-based method to integrate Adyen payment devices or terminals with NewStore Associate App or other POS applications.
Important
From January 1, 2022, all payment devices being installed in new stores via NewStore can only be set up by integrating with the Adyen Terminal API.
To configure the Terminal API for your payment devices, See
Additional settings to process payments with Adyen terminals
or contact your IT support team.
Before you begin
Before you begin, ensure that you:
Install NewStore Associate App on your device.
Have access to your merchant account in
Adyen
.
Assign the payment device to your merchant account in Adyen.
Note
Payment devices for your business should arrive pre-assigned to your Adyen merchant account. Validate that the assignment is correct within the
Assign Terminals Area
in Adyen and proceed.
Connect the payment device to the internet and verify that it is on a network that allows Associate App to work as well. For more information, see Adyen's
connectivity requirements
.
Board the payment terminal for the specific store and configuration in the
Adyen Customer Area
. Boarding connects the terminal to the store and the Adyen server. For more information, see
Boarding terminals
.
Ensure that the Terminal API and
Adyen WebSockets
are enabled for your store and payment terminal. For more information, follow the instructions in Adyen's
setup guide
within the
Adyen Customer Area
. To set this up, contact the
support team
and
Team Mobile Apps
.
Check that the
icon appears next to the Wi-Fi icon in the payment device. This indicates that the terminal is now connected to Adyen and is successfully boarded.
Ensure that the payment device supports the Adyen Terminal API. Some examples include
e285
,
e285p, and AMS1
.
Also see
Adyen's functional requirements
.
Viewing payment devices in NewStore Associate App
After you have successfully boarded the Adyen payment terminal for the store and connected to the in-store network, the terminal appears in NewStore Associate App.
To view a list of terminals in NewStore Associate App, tap
>
Credit Card Terminal
. All the payment terminals that have been boarded in your store appear in this list. You can validate the payment terminals boarded in NewStore Associate App by checking the terminal ID in the
Adyen Customer Area
.
Connecting to an Adyen payment terminal during checkout
To set up a payment device or terminal from the list of terminals boarded in NewStore Associate App:
Select the Adyen payment terminal, after selecting
Credit Card
from the list of payment methods when checking out a cart.
To connect NewStore Associate App to the terminal, select the terminal from the list and tap
Connect to Terminal
.
The payment terminal can now be used to complete the checkout process in NewStore Associate App.
Important
If this is the first time a payment terminal is being used in the store, follow instructions from the
Adyen boarding guide
to board it. Boarding allows the device to be recognized by NewStore Associate App for all associates in your store.
After you have boarded a terminal, you can connect it to NewStore Associate App.
Worldline payments
Worldline is a French financial services company that specializes in facilitating seamless transactions across various channels, including e-commerce, mobile platforms, and point-of-sale (POS) systems. As a leading payment service provider, Worldline offers a comprehensive suite of services spanning the entire payments value chain. These include issuing processing, payment acceptance, commercial acquiring, and acquiring processing.
The NewStore integration with Worldline leverages the Worldline Axis development environment and the C3Agent software component to enable seamless integration between POS platforms and Worldline’s payment processing services. This integration enhances the NewStore POS system by enabling smooth cash-and-carry payment transactions, delivering a reliable and efficient solution for in-store purchases. With this integration, retailers can securely process a wide range of payment methods, including card-present transactions, using intuitive and secure payment terminals.
Important
The integration between NewStore and Worldline enables cash and carry, card present payment and refund transactions only. All payment transactions are treated as immediately captured as part of the integration
.
Worldline setup guide
Connecting your Worldline payment terminal or payment device to the NewStore Associate App is quick and easy. Before you begin, please make sure you have completed the following steps:
Install the NewStore Associate app on your iOS device.
See
Configuring Payment Options
to add the Worldline payment and refund options to your store configurations.
For retailers with in-house development resources, ensure your Worldline merchant account is set up to use the Worldline Axis development environment.
If your Worldline Merchant Account does not currently use Axis, you can:
Create your own Worldline Axis development environment, or
Contact a Worldline integration partner that has an existing Axis development environment.
Validate with Worldline or your integration partner that the payment devices or terminals being used are configured with the correct CPA (Card Payment Application) Map and TPV (Point of Sale Terminal) number. The CPA Map is used to map the payment transactions to the back-end payment acquirers.
Note
When retailers order payment devices from Worldline or Worldline Integration Partners, those payment devices should arrive with the pre-assigned CPA (Card Payment Application) MAP and TPV (Point of Sale Terminal) number.
The Worldline integration currently supports WIRED Payment terminals, which connect directly to a retailer’s store network. Ensure that the payment terminal(s) are physically connected to the store network. Then, on the iOS devices that will be used with the NewStore Associate App, go to the Wireless settings and confirm that all devices are connected to the same store network as the payment terminals.
Important
Both the iOS device and the payment terminal must be on the same network and connected to the internet to ensure proper connectivity between the devices.
Initiating Worldline payment terminals
The current integration between NewStore and Worldline supports Ingenico Lane3000 payment terminals. These wired, Ethernet terminals require a daily initialization process to ensure they have the latest firmware and software updates from Worldline before a store begins accepting payment transactions.
Important
To enable NewStore to connect to the payment terminals, retailers must perform this daily initialization process using the NewStore Associate App by following the steps below.
Log in to the NewStore Associate App.
Tap
More
option at the bottom right of the Associate App.
Tap
Credit Card Terminal (Worldline)
>
Add Terminal Device
Enter a unique user defined name for the payment terminal.
Enter the TPV (terminal identification) number of the terminal.
Enter the IP address of the terminal.
Tap
Save
>
Initialize
.
Note
After starting the initialization request, the user will receive an initialization successful message on the Associate App.
Once the initialization is complete, select the payment terminal you specified in step 4 to connect to the terminal and begin processing payments.
NewStore Associate App Software Updates
When updating the NewStore Associate App on iOS devices using MDM, please ensure that the MDM process performs an update of the Application and not a deletion followed by a fresh install. If your MDM process does perform a deletion, the new installation of the App will reset/ delete the Worldline payment terminal listing on each device, which will then require the iOS device to reconnect to each payment terminal to re-populate the listing.
Connecting to a Worldline payment terminal during checkout
To select a payment device or terminal from the list of connected terminals within the NewStore Associate App:
During the checkout process, select
Credit Card Reader
from the list of available payment options.
To connect the NewStore Associate App to the terminal, select the desired terminal name from the list and tap
Connect to Terminal
.
You can now use the payment terminal to complete the checkout process in NewStore Associate App.
Related topics
Adyen's list of payment terminals
Adyen's functional requirements
Integrating Adyen
Configuring Adyen payment card readers
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Adyen
Associate App
checkout
NewStore checkout
payment
payment device
payment options
PSP
sdk
Square
Worldline
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use