Configuration and store inventory
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Configuration and  store inventory
Updated on
Mar 11, 2025
Published on Mar 11, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Store setup
Adding stores to the routing rules is not enough to let the routing engine consider stores as fulfilment locations. Stores must be enabled for fulfilment as well. If you create a store in NewStore, the store is enabled for fulfilment by default, however, this can be turned off by users via NOM or by toggling the flag using
Location API
.
Note
The ATP of all items is set to 0 in case the store is disabled for fulfilment. So in case you notice in the NOM Stock Levels view the ATP being 0 despite “On hand” being greater than 0 and no reservations / allocations, the reason might be that the store is not enabled
Fulfilment document setup
One important part of the fulfilment flow is the printing of documents which are put into the package. As part of this exercise we want to print a shipping label and a return form. The return form is put by the customer into the package, it contains a barcode with the order reference to streamline the return process. In case there is no RMA process in place, customers would also note the return reason on this form.
Read through the guide
Configure in-store or warehouse documents for print
to setup both
shipping_label
and
return_form
Note
use
document_printer
for both document types, even though shipping labels are more typically printed on a label printer. You will need to setup a printer in the Associate app to be able to proceed through the order fulfilment process and you will likely have a regular document printer available than a Star Micronics label printer model.
Fulfilment document customisation
The shipping label is generated by the carrier, or in this case by your dummy carrier integration (can be a static PDF). The return form is generated by NewStore and you can use the NOM Template Editor to customise the document.
Update the return_form template to add another line into the header information of the return which contains the name of the country of the
Shipping address
. The change compared to the system default template is highlighted as below:
Note
you’ll find the Template Editor in NOM under “Tools”
the template editor has a Schema tab for each template showing available data objects
the Helper functions tab will point you to a helper function to translate a country code into a country name string
you don’t need to change the default sample data for this task
Inventory
If you haven’t done so yet as part of Module 3 you would need to supply the store with inventory. One way would be to use the Associate app and perform a
Receiving
without ASN to add on hand stock for the SKUs you would like to use for testing store fulfilment.
The quicker option is to use the
full count API
to reset the on hand for the SKUs.
Taking it for a spin
That’s it, now your tenant is ready to ship orders from store. Assuming you have setup the destination region
Location
sort order to ship from DC first and then from store, you will need products for testing which are in stock in store, but out of stock in the DC.
Place one order which is routed to the store and fulfil it using the Associate app. Afterwards place another order and perform a mispick. Note down what you observe looking at the order status.
The address where goods are sent to. A shipping address is composed of a postal address and a phone number.
The movement of inventory from a warehouse/distribution center to a store. Inventory can be received against an
Advance Shipment Notice
or other references. See the
Inventory
and see how to
Receiving inventory
with NewStore Associate App. Do not confuse this term with
Transfer
.
A place from where the item can be fulfilled by the retailer or collected by the customer. Typically a
Distribution center
or a
Retail store
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use