Fiscal regulations in Spain
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in Spain
Updated on
Apr 30, 2025
Published on Apr 25, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Recent fiscal regulations in Spain have introduced a new system known as Veri*Factu. Prior to this new regulation, retailers were operating under the 2012 regulation known as the Royal Decree on Invoicing. Additionally, prior regulations in Spain introduced SII,
Suministro Inmediato de Información
on
July 1, 2017
, by the Spanish Tax Agency (
AEAT
) to enhance VAT compliance through near real-time invoice reporting.
Retailers operating within SII are not required to follow the Veri*Factu regulations. As such, NewStore is providing the necessary receipt components for retailers to comply with the Royal Decree from 2012.
For stores operating in Spain, NewStore provides following functionalities to comply with local receipt requirements:
Consecutive receipt numbers via e-journal transaction sequencing
Identification of receipts as a COPY of the original
Store activations for Spain
In stores operating in Spain, a store must be activated before orders can be created via Associate app.
Important
A store must be already created within the NewStore platform before it can be activated. For more details, see
Creating a store
.
To activate a store, a cashbox must be activated within the NewStore platform via Omnichannel Manager. For more details, see
Activating cashboxes
.
Receipts for stores in Spain
Stores in Spain must have the ability to issue 2 types of receipts for POS transactions,
Factura Simplificada
and
Factura Completa
.
Factura Simplificada
Factura Simplificada receipts are typically issued for the following:
For transactions not exceeding €400 (VAT included).
For specific operations up to €3,000 (VAT included), such as:
Retail Sales
Based on regulations that apply to stores operating in Spain, these additional attributes must be included in receipts:
Sequential invoice number and, if applicable, series.
Date of issuance.
Tax Identification Number (NIF) and name or business name of the issuer.
Description of goods delivered or services rendered.
VAT rate applied and, optionally, the expression "IVA incluido" (VAT included).
If multiple VAT rates apply, they must be specified separately, along with the corresponding taxable base for each.
Fatura Completa
Factura Completa is typically required for most business transactions, especially those involving other businesses or professionals.​ These transactions are commonly referred to as B2B transactions.
Factura Completa receipts are typically issued for the following:
For transactions exceeding the limits set for simplified invoices.
When the recipient is a business or professional acting as such.
Based on regulations that apply to stores operating in Spain, these additional attributes must be included in receipts:
Sequential invoice number and, if applicable, series.
Date of issuance.
Full name or business name and address of both the issuer and the recipient.
Tax Identification Number (NIF) of both the issuer and the recipient.
Description of goods delivered or services rendered, including quantity and unit price.
Any discounts or rebates not included in the unit price.
Taxable base amount.
VAT rate(s) applied.
VAT amount charged, stated separately.
Date of supply of goods or services if different from the invoice date
Issuing Duplicate or Copies of Receipts
When issuing copies of receipts within Spain, the receipt must include the notation:
“
Duplicado
”.
In order to modify the receipt templates for Spain, see
Customizing a template
.
Important
The NewStore platform provides the fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is the responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Consecutive receipt numbers
According to the regulations in Spain, each receipt must contain a consecutive receipt number. NewStore platform generates consecutive receipt numbers for each transaction based on the transaction type and the configured receipt number prefix.
The consecutive receipt number is made of 4 parts:
The type of the transaction, where S represents Sale transactions, R represents Return transactions and E represents Exchange transactions.
The fiscal year in which the transaction was created, in YY format.
A configurable unique receipt number prefix that will be used within the receipt series.
The receipt number prefix must be configured during the fiscal activation.
A unique value per store is recommended for the receipt number prefix.
The receipt number prefix must consist of 1-5 upper-case alphanumeric characters.
A consecutive transaction number.
The consecutive transaction number is incremented per type of transaction.
The receipt number will always consist of 16 characters.
Therefore, the length of the prefix determines the maximum length of the receipt series within a calendar year.
Sequence number for the given series will be reset at the beginning of each calendar year.
Sample receipt numbers
S25-BARC1-000099
S: Refers to a sale transaction.
25: Fiscal year of the transaction, 2025.
BARC1: The configurable unique prefix, e.g. a store ID.
000099: The consecutive transaction number.
R25-MADR2-0000120
R: Refers to a return transaction.
25: Fiscal year of the transaction, 2025.
MADR2: The configurable unique prefix, e.g. a store ID.
00000120: The consecutive transaction number.
E25-MADR2-00000120
E: Refers to an exchange transaction.
25: Fiscal year of the transaction, 2025.
MADR2: The configurable unique prefix, e.g. a store ID.
00000120: The consecutive transaction number.
Important
In the above examples, each Unique prefix is of a different length. However, the entire receipt number remains 16 characters (including the “-”).
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use