Archive - Associate App release notes
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Archive - Associate App release notes
Published on Apr 1, 2025
46 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
An archive for release notes for Associate App versions older than v1.43.0. For the latest Associate App release notes, see
App updates
.
Release v1.42.1
Release date
: December 15, 2023
Associate App v1.42.1 is a patch release that solves issues when searching the catalog or browsing categories in the app.
An issue with displaying a banner to notify associates that the device is offline has also been addressed and is currently being reworked to provide a better experience for associates.
Bug fixes
Browsing the categories in the catalog now works as intended
Searching for products with large variations does not block the search function anymore
The offline banner is not displayed when the device is online
Release v1.42.0
Release date
: December 11, 2023
Associate App v1.42.0 marks a significant stride in user experience and efficiency. In this release, we have focused on optimizing performance, and introducing the new login flow for all retailers. Users can expect a more intuitive experience, with improvements in accessibility and overall system stability.
Improvements
ðŸ’ª
New login flow for all retailers
The new login flow that was initially introduced in v1.37.0 for early adopters will now be enabled for all retailers starting with v1.42.0. All users will experience the improved speed and reliability of the new login flow, which not only reduces the time to log into the app, but also allows the login PIN to be used for 7 days. With email and password now only required once a week, this should exponentially cut back the time spent logging into each device at the start of the day.
Connectivity loss notification on Login screen
As part of improving the overall app experience, associates will now be informed
when the app detects no internet connectivity on login
. This will increase user awareness and allow alternate options such as offline mode for completing transactions rather than seeing an endless loading spinner when attempting to log in.
Future enhancements will keep users informed across the app beyond this first step.
Enhancing app performance
As part of our continuous efforts, we have implemented various enhancements to boost app performance, aiming to improve the overall user experience during navigation and utilization. These improvements are particularly noticeable when adding products to the cart, significantly reducing the time it takes to place an order, particularly on older devices.
Powered by NewStore - Refreshed App Icon and Splash Screen
We introduced an elegant new app icon and splash screen, designed to enhance the experience for users with a touch of freshness and sophistication. The new icon and splash screen are designed to instantly resonate with our users, embedding the NewStore brand identity in their daily interactions with the app. It's a small change that makes a big statement about who we are and the quality that our users can expect from NewStore.
Brighten up the Fulfillment flow
We streamlined the order fulfillment process and provided a smoother experience, to make the sales associate's work more efficient and user-friendly. Enjoy clearer readability when selecting orders, a more focused interface during the picking process, and improved spacing for the
Print
button. Express orders now stand out in bold for quick identification. We've also fixed issues like selecting zero priority orders and text overflow in the
In Progress
and
Search Orders
screens. The
Picking
section now indicates that not all items are required to be picked, with a cleaner layout.
Adding metrics to grasp app insights
As knowledge is key, we have added additional measurements to the application to get further insights into the process of:
Placing orders
Scanning barcodes, and
Adding products to the cart.
This will help us to find, identify and remove bottlenecks to further improve the app.
Using a deep link to open a product card
We added the possibility to open a card referencing a product from within a customization webview. This can be used to link back from custom web applications to the Associate App and enables use cases like product recommendations, wishlists and others.
Find more information about
deep links in Associate App
.
Bug fixes
Associates are now correctly assigned to the right store during login using PIN
Users are no longer stuck on the PIN setup screen when not assigned to a store
Selling section is now properly hidden when configured
Documents consisting of multiple pages are now properly printed on Zebra printers
Warranty information is now shown properly when configured
Last checkout now opens the correct order when using an external OMS
Quick scan from the Cart screen now works properly after scanning products from the Scan screen
Extended attributes are now available for product codes being scanned with a Bluetooth scanner
Push Notification settings for the user are now properly shown after switching users
Cash Management: The app no longer freezes in Daily Close after the device goes to sleep
Release v1.41.2
Release date
: November 19, 2023
Note
This patch release is aimed at retailers who are using tokens for PII data. Retailers not using tokens or PII data do not need to upgrade to this patch release.
Bug fixes
For retailers using PII data, the customer profile is now properly assigned to a placed order when a gift card is used for payments.
Release v1.41.1
Release date
: October 24, 2023
Bug fixes
Price for gift wrapping is now properly shown during the store fulfillment process.
Warranty information is now shown on all orders.
Release v1.41.0
Release date: October 18, 2023
Associate App v1.41.0 contains exciting new features like push notifications and resending email receipts, as well as enhancements like improved sales performance dashboards, which have been redesigned for clearer data visualization and faster load times. There are also several bug fixes to improve the quality of the app and make the overall associate experience more reliable. This release focuses on improving the overall associate experience through faster performance, better UI, and expanded capabilities.
As a reminder, this is the
final release before BFCM
, so we highly recommend all retailers update to take advantage of the latest features and experience improvements. Updating ensures associates can leverage the new capabilities to provide excellent customer service during the busy shopping season.
New features ðŸŽ‰
Push notifications
We're excited to announce that the Associate App is now able to receive push notifications. This will improve the store teams' experience and increase their responsiveness.
We've started with covering the cases in the runner experience. It's now possible to receive push notifications for a specific task. For example, the runner in the stockroom and the sales associate on the sales floor can set their notifications and be notified when there are updates.
The functionality works similarly to standard iOS notifications. Runner notifications within the Associate App mirror the user's settings configured in iPhone Settings. Users will receive these notifications both within and outside the Associate App. They can simply tap on the notifications to access the runner request.
Users can set their notification preferences via
Settings
-
Notification Settings
. The available NewStore Associate App runner notifications are:
New Task Submitted: sent to all users who turned this notification setting on
Task Accepted: sent to the sales associate who created the request
Task Completed: sent to the sales associate who created the request
Product Exception: sent to the sales associate who created the request
Check out the
Configuring the push notifications for runners
section for the documentation of how to use the feature.
You can turn on the push notification feature for a retailer via the
push_notifications
property of the
Associate App Configuration API
.
Resending email receipts
Associates are now able to re-email sales receipts to customers on previous orders. Store associates can access this feature by navigating to a customer's order history and selecting a specific order to then send the sales receipt to the customer's email address. This new feature uses the email address that was used for the original order and will automatically send the sales receipt to that address.
Note
Regardless of the order status, the sales or exchange receipt can only be emailed. Additional receipt types such as return receipts and gift receipts are currently not supported.
Improvements
Associate App Sales Dashboards
User interface
: we have greatly improved the UI of the Associate App Sales Dashboards to improve the associate experience.
Highlights include:
Adopting the NewStore Mobile Design System.
Condensing the the size of the data cards to allow for more information to be visible on the users screen without scrolling.
Removing the subtitles and changing font weights and sizes to ensure that there is more focus on the actual data and less distractions.
Speed
âš¡ï¸: with our new method of fetching the data from Insights, we have greatly improved the screen load time.
Line-level attribution
ðŸ™‹ðŸ¼: when using the recently released
associate attribution
feature, store associates can be assigned to specific line items on an order. This attribution is now reflected in the the Associate App Sales Dashboard, giving them insight into how they are performing throughout the day.
Quick scan - serial number support
The quick scan feature now supports serialized products. When a serialized product is scanned, the associate is prompted to scan the serial number barcode. The product is then immediately added to the cart, improving the efficiency of the process.
Gift receipts for gift cards
With Associate App v1.41.0, the gift card number is now available to be included on the gift receipt template. So when a customer is purchasing a gift card, it can be matched to what is displayed on the receipt.
Bug fixes
When using the quick scan in the cart screen, the performance has been improved and no longer results in an app crash.
Flashlight of the iPhone now properly turns off if the app is moved to background or the iPhone is locked.
Customer assignment on the cart is now preserved when paying with gift card.
Managers can now perform self-approvals when processing cash refunds.
Cash Returns - The original order number rather than the cart ID is now reflected in the NOM Cash Summary screens.
Submitting receiving transactions will no longer create multiple transactions in certain scenarios.
The app no longer navigates twice to the Selling section after login.
Using the new login flow will no longer show the "Selling" menu option if the configuration is set to hide it.
New login: associates cannot login anymore with an expired token after 7 days.
Printing on AirPrint on devices using iOS17 will now always print the document as expected.
Shipping labels printed on A6 sized paper are no longer cut off on the edges.
The Order Details screen now displays the fulfillment type properly.
After an order handover, the application brings associates back from the detailed view to the carrier pickup view.
Associates can not click the Complete Packing button more than once anymore.
Improved error messages in several different situations.
The Fulfillment option does not disappear from the drawer menu anymore.
Release v1.40.0
Release date: September 25, 2023
Get ready for the unveiling of Associate App Version 1.40.0! This latest release of the Associate App includes a number of improvements and a handful of bug fixes. This release is a testament to our ongoing effort to refine your app experience, making it a valuable and commendable update.
iOS Support
We're excited to announce that Associate App v1.40.0 now supports iOS 17, Apple's newest mobile operating system. To ensure optimal performance and compatibility, support for iOS 15 will be discontinued with this release. We encourage all retailers to ensure iOS is updated on all devices to a supported version, iOS 16 or 17. As always, we remain committed to supporting the latest iOS versions with timely app updates.
For more information, see
NewStore Associate App - iOS compatibility
.
Improvements
Improved bulk printing
The existing bulk printing functionality has been improved with the introduction of the
Printing Queue
feature. This enhancement ensures every triggered printing job is executed without oversight, making it particularly valuable for store fulfillment with its high document volume and corresponding printing workload.
Streamlined banners
In response to user feedback, the notification banners have been reworked to enhance usability. Key usability improvements have been added to shorten the display time and reduce the width, resulting in faster interactions with the top navigation. This improvement strikes a balance between keeping users informed and ensuring a smooth user experience without hindering workflow.
Quick scan with Bluetooth scanners
As a result of incorporating user feedback into our scanner capability, the quick scan functionality has been improved with Bluetooth scanner support. Users can now enable the Bluetooth scanner in
Settings
and connect the scanner on a particular device. This was a frequently requested enhancement and enables a broader range of customers to benefit from the convenience of quick scanning. We value your feedback and encourage you to share your thoughts with us so that we can continue to make it better.
Learn how to set up and use a Bluetooth scanner
.
Inventory - Carton-level receiving
Additional usability enhancements have also been added to the product list. The enhancements for product list optimizes the view to handle more items, resulting in better page performance when displaying long lists of ASN content.
Price adjustments (increases) for blind returns
Associates can now make price adjustments using a higher price when processing blind returns within the Associate App. Prior to this update, price adjustments on blind returns only allowed for a lower price entry. Now Associate App allows store associates to change the price on a blind return to a higher price. This change addresses use cases where the original purchase price for an item being returned may be higher than the current price reflected in the price book/catalog. This improvement will be available for all users.
Continuous improvement with new metrics
Metrics play a key role in optimizing the NewStore experience. As such, this release of the Associate App introduces new metrics, encompassing user engagement, conversions, performance, and more! These added metrics signify our relentless pursuit of app excellence. While not visible to retailers, these metrics are the backbone of our ongoing mission to empower continuous improvements and deliver an exceptional app experience.
Improved messaging when fulfillment is disabled
As part of our efforts to continually improve usability, we have enhanced the messaging within the fulfillment area. Previously when a store had no pending fulfillment tasks and fulfillment was disabled, associates received a potentially confusing
Fulfillment not configured
message. We have updated the message to clarify that there are no active fulfillment tasks, ensuring associates understand it's not an error.
Bug fixes
Opening the last checkout will now properly show the last placed order again.
Switching between different users will now correctly restore the last visited screen for every user.
The associate listed last in the item attribution selection can now also be accessed.
Clienteling "My inbox" no longer shows messages from the previous logged-in user.
Manual logout will now work properly when using new login flow.
Associate will now see an error banner when quick scanning a product that can not be added to the cart.
Extended attributes are now passed when adding gift cards to the cart.
Release v1.39.2
Release date
: September 07, 2023
This patch release is aimed at retailers who are piloting the new login flow framework implementation. Retailers not using the new login flow enabled do not need this patch.
Bug fixes
Associates can now use cash management operations such as
Daily Open
and
Daily Close
again.
Release v1.39.1
Release date
: September 06, 2023
Bug fixes
Associates are able to login using their PIN again.
App does not crash anymore when performing a quick scan and navigating to a different tab.
Release v1.39.0
Release date: September 4, 2023
New features
Sales attribution for items sold by associates
To have accurate data for comissions, store associates can now assign (provide sales credit for) a specific associate to each item in an order during the checkout process.
To assign a sale to a store associate, associates can select the item within the cart and select
Assign Associate
. A list of active store associates for that specific store is displayed. If there are multiple items in the cart, each item can be attributed to a different associate, after which the cart displays the assigned associate for each item in the order.
Note
Retailers using the previous Associate App extension for assigning commissions to associates must update their backend integrations prior to enabling this feature via an app configuration.
Learn more about how to use this feature
.
Quickly add products to the cart
To speed up the checkout process and better visibility of products in the cart, associates now have the possibility to scan the products directly from the cart screen.
Associates can tap on the newly added
Scan
button on the cart screen navigation bar, and scan the product barcode using the native iOS camera. The scanned product is added to the cart immediately. The app does not require a confirmation to speed up the process.
Improvements
Tap to Pay on iPhone in the Netherlands
Retailers in the Netherlands can now use Tap to Pay on iPhone in their stores. Associate App v1.39.0 adds the latest Adyen SDK for Tap to Pay on iPhone, which provides future support for iOS 17.
Learn how to set up Tap to Pay on iPhone
.
Extended login timeframe
To reduce the frequency of logins for associates, Associate App introduces an extended 7-day token lifetime instead of the previous 12-hour timeframe. Associates now only need to log in with their full credentials once every 7 days, and can use their PIN to log in afterwards within this 7-day timeframe.
Note
The new login framework must be enabled for this extended login timeframe, which NewStore will gradually roll out shortly after this release.
Dismissable loading dialog for addresses
Loading dialogs for deleting or updating an address are now dismissible in case loading takes too long. This allows associates to perform other tasks and unblocks them.
Runner improvements
To focus on the relevant requests,
Sales associates
and
Runners
can now filter the request list by status to see only new or in-progress requests. They can now also access completed requests, to verify any details if needed.
Early adoption feature
Scanning without a confirmation dialog
Early Access
If you are interested in early access to this feature, ask your point of contact at NewStore or contact your Omnichannel Success Manager to enable this feature for you.
To speed up the inventory process, now you can configure the app to scan inventory without confirming the product or quantity. If this feature is enabled, upon scanning a product the app displays the product information card and a green success or orange no success message at the top. During any inventory operations the product is added without any confirmation step and the associate can proceed with the next scan.
To disable confirmations, use the
Configuration API
and set the
require_confirmation_on_scanning
and
allow_receiving_manual_quantity_editing
properties to
false
.
We'd like to collect feedback from teams in the stores to improve the experience for retailers who are dealing with a high volume of products, and would like to move faster when performing cycle counts or receiving inventory.
We are currently looking for early adopters to validate the solution and provide feedback.
Upcoming features
Customization widget for date selection
In a few weeks, NewStore will introduce a new feature for customizing widgets, enabling associates to select dates in the app. This selection can encompass a complete date or a partial date in multiple combinations, such as a birthdate
12/31
, or birth month
01/1984
. The format in which NewStore saves the data will be configurable in NOM.
Bug fixes
Drawer navigation now works correctly after cancelling a refund transaction.
Printing labels with a Zebra printer now correctly prints the label, formatted according to the paper size.
Address suggestions can be edited, unit numbers are populated in the address line, address name populates correctly in new customer screens' address fields.
Locking the phone and coming back to fiscal reports no longer displays a blank white screen.
The store contact number can now be called via the app even if it contains blank spaces.
Printing hang tags now works correctly when the new printing framework is disabled.
The app now automatically navigates to the last visited screen after logging in using your PIN.
The
Selling
area is now hidden correctly from view when configured to be unavailable to associates.
If there is a failure in retrieving a conversation, the chat button no longer becomes unresponsive.
For inventory transactions, the
Confirm
button is no longer disabled in certain cases.
When adding a product to a runner request, no unintended products from previous requests are added.
Store-level tax exemption class definitions can now be successfully retrieved.
For retailers where the new login experience has been enabled, the associate is no longer required to create a new PIN if a PIN has been previously set.
Release v1.38.0
Release date: August 14, 2023
New features
Store Fulfillment order documents available for reprint in app
Associates can now view the details and documents of orders that have been marked as
Handed Over
, with the option to reprint the necessary documents. This helps fix and reprint order documents such as shipping labels when the barcode is illegible, even after the order has already been marked as handed over for shipping.
Associates can now view a list of all recent orders in the past 7 days that have been marked as
Handed Over
, search for orders by
Order ID
in this list, reprint associated documents, and also view more details for the order such as customer name, product prices, and items included in the package.
Improvements
Tax exemptions
Associates can now add the
Tax exemption number
and the
Tax exemption class
to process the order as a tax exempt order. This helps ensure that tax exempt orders are captured in a compliant manner, without the need for app customizations.
Inventory improvements
Completed adjustments are now visible in the app so associates can review them or view notes for the transactions.
Associates can now quickly select the destination location from a list based on what they type, when creating store-initiated transfers of inventory.
Runner improvements
The name of the associate acting as the
Runner
is now visible on the request so the sales associate knows who to contact for more information.
Associates and the runner can now filter requests that were created or the ones they are working on so the most relevant or priority requests can be focused on.
The usability of the
Runner
has been improved, as the list of requests is automatically refreshed when a Runner request has been completed or the status has changed. The list no longer needs to be manually refreshed.
Additonal improvements
Address suggestion improvements
: The experience for searching addresses in customer profiles and when selecting the delivery address for
endless aisle
orders has also been improved. When entering addresses, the app waits until the full entry is complete before suggesting options. This improves the accuracy of suggestions and overall usability.
Additionally, the order of house or unit numbers and street names are now retained to improve address support for countries like Australia and the UK that have different address formats.
Dismissible printing dialog boxes for improved app control
: Sometimes the app takes longer than expected to communicate with the printer. Previously, this rendered the app in an unusable state, requiring a force close and restart.
As a first iteration, loading screens indicating an ongoing printing process can now be dismissed, giving associates control if the process takes longer than expected. This prevents app lockouts and provides flexibility in case of errors, enabling increased app continuity for a smoother experience.
Upcoming features
Quickly add products to the cart
To speed up the checkout process and better visibility of products in the cart, associates now have the possibility to scan the products directly from the cart screen.
Associates can tap on the newly added
Scan
button on the cart screen navigation bar, and scan the product barcode using the native iOS camera. The scanned product is added to cart immediately. The app does not ask for a confirmation to speed up the process.
Note
Enable the new scanning framework to use this
Quick scan
feature.
Bug fixes
Locking the phone when on
Inventory
or
Store Fulfillment
screens no longer causes the app to freeze.
Multi-store users: The
store ID
configured in the app is now correctly recognized, resulting in associates being assigned to the correct store.
Offline orders are now assigned to the associate who uploaded the order.
Bug fixes for new customer screens:
Email_opt_in customization/configuration is now supported in the new screens.
Address lookup in new customer screens now show street name and house number in the correct order.
Blind returns are now correctly associated with the assigned customer for the return.
Adding a blind return to the cart now dismisses the return dialog box.
Product attributes are now correctly shown on the
Order Detail
screen.
Using the app in a store that does not have business hours configured no longer slows down the app.
The
Settings
menu in side navigation drawer is no longer hidden on devices that have smaller screens.
For inventory transactions, receiving cartons no longer leaves a draft transaction when cancelled before it is submitted.
The app extension for hang tag printing is no longer displayed when new hang tags from the
Templates Editor
are enabled.
Release v1.37.1
Release date
: July 25, 2023
Bug fixes
Gift card values are now shown for all applicable currencies in the store.
App does not crash anymore when orders contain products that have an invalid image URL.
Associates can now navigate to the payment selection screen even if the app is force closed during the checkout process.
Browsing through the app for a long time does not cause the app to crash anymore.
Release v1.37.0
Release date
: July 24, 2023
New features
Revamped customer profile screens
Customer screens in the app have been redesigned to make it easier for associates to find, create, and assign customers to a profile. These changes can now be enabled in the app:
Directly access customer profiles from the cart or when trying to create a customer that already exists.
Create a new profile directly from the
Search
screen with auto-population of fields, so you don't have to ask for the information and enter it again.
The screen for customer addresses provides a simplified overview, allowing associates to easily create, update, or delete addresses.
The app scanner can now identify whether the scanned code, such as a QR code or barcode, contains customer information that can be utilized during the customer profile search process.
From the customer search, quickly assign a customer to a cart without having to navigate to the profile overview first.
The app validates the phone number format (
E.164
) on the customer profile to avoid errors.
A single name field supports adding longer names with multiple or singular parts, especially for countries where the categorization of a first and last name is not practiced. Event stream, however, keeps the separation of first and last names.
For more information on enabling these changes for your business, see:
App configuration API
docs
Configuring auto-populated fields for customer profiles
Configuring scanner identifiers for customer profiles
Important
Enabling this feature will disrupt any active custom app extensions that you have configured for customer profile screens in the app.
Improvements
A revamped login process
The login experience in the app has been revamped to stabilize the process and remove issues when logging in. NewStore will also gather data on the new login flow and its usage, to evaluate and further improve the login experience for associates in the future.
To enable this feature for your business, see
Enabling an improved login process for Associate App
.
Important
To use the new login process,
all devices must be updated to v1.37.0 or later
. Any devices on which the app has not been updated to v1.37.0 or later will
not display
the new login flow for users even if the feature has been enabled for your business.
Performance improvements
Order activity
- The
Order Activity
screen in the customer profile screen has a fresh new look and offers a smoother navigation for associates, and is more responsive in general.
Order details
- The
Order Details
view has also been optimized to improve both the transition speed and the retrieval of order details. Associates will now experience faster loading times and smoother transitions when moving between the
Order List
and
Order Details
screens and initiating returns.
Return process
- The return flow has been optimized to offer associates a more responsive experience when they select products, return reasons, and condition of the item.
Filtering stock on hand
After introducing sorting for
ATP
and
stock on hand
, associates can now also filter stock on hand for items in the app. Associates can use this feature to find products that are still in-stock for customers to buy in the store.
Important
This feature is only available to retailers who use NewStore as inventory master for stores in their business. See
NewStore as inventory master
.
Default sorting behavior has also been changed for retailers who do not offer
Endless Aisle
.
Instead of ATP, the default sort now uses stock on hand, to bring items with the most available stock to the top of the page, ensuring that associates find saleable items quickly.
The sorting option for ATP is not displayed in the app anymore in such cases.
Inventory improvements
Associates can now access completed ASNs to view the latest activity on them and see if the items have been received correctly.
Associates can now see the number of products (SKUs) and the units of the ASNs on the list so they can plan to receive them now or later, depending on the size of the shipment.
Associates can now remove or decrease the quantity of scanned products when the manual quantity picker is disabled, so the quantity can be updated if the last product was accidentally scanned.
The input in the manual quantity picker is overwritten by default when an associate enters the quantity of the item to avoid accidentally entering a wrong quantity.
For more information, see
Using NewStore Associate App to manage inventory
.
Runner improvements
Stock associates can now mark products as unavailable if they cannot find them. This allows the sales associate to see the availability of the product in the request.
The stock associate can mark the product as available again if they find it in the store.
For more information, see
Using the runner
.
Multi-store users in Test Mode
Users that can log into multiple stores in the app can now also switch between
Test Mode
of the app and the live version in production. Manual store assignment when switching to
Test Mode
for such users is no longer required.
Improved messaging for restricted coupons
For coupons or promotions that have restrictions applied to them, the app now displays improved messaging in the UI on why these coupons could not be applied to a specific order.
Based on the situation, associates are notified if the coupon was not applied because the coupon code does not exist, the coupon was already redeemed, the coupon is limited to a specific customer ID, or if it is only applicable in specific stores.
Bug fixes
Associates with an expired PIN will no longer receive a
Session Expired
alert.
For multi-store users, the app no longer crashes intermittently when the associate is already assigned to the store.
For a remote cart, scanning a product that is not found in the catalog no longer endlessly loads in the app.
When multiple printers are configured, the app now displays the printer selection dialog box when printing hangtags.
Printing receipts using the
AirPrint only
mode no longer causes the app to crash.
Discounted prices now show up correctly in the
Order Detail
page.
Release v1.36.1
Release date
: July 10, 2023
Bug fixes
Add gift card
button is no longer disabled when necessary data is added for a gift card payment.
Release v1.36.0
Release date
: July 3, 2023
New features
Runner
With the first iteration of the
Runner
functionality, associates can now request products to be brought to them on the sales floor without having to leave the customer to get the product from the stock room themselves. This increases potential for completing a sale, enhancing Units Per Transaction (UPT) and the order value, improving overall revenue.
For more information, see
Using the runner
.
Priority orders
NewStore has introduced a
priority orders
feature to enable store associates to manage the priority orders. Retailers can now define a list of
service levels
to be considered as priority. Associates can now see if there are priority orders waiting to be fulfilled and create fulfillment waves containing only priority orders.
To add the service levels in your fulfillment configuration, use the
Store fulfillment configuration API
.
For more information to configure the Associate App settings, see
Enabling priority orders in store fulfillment
.
Hang tag template tool
This capability requires Associate App v1.36.0. For more information, see
A hang tag template for additional pricebooks
.
Improvements
Associate App customization enhancements
Associate App has now been enhanced to facilitate deeper customization. A key feature is the introduction of extension points in the
More
menu, which enables the integration of webviews based on the store and/or associate context. For example, this feature can be utilized to provide a centralized, at-a-glance view of all upcoming customer appointments, streamlining operations and boosting associate productivity.
Further upgrades include a new customization feature that allows users to choose a single attribute from a predefined list and expanded capabilities for customer profile extensions leverage customer profile IDs, previously limited to extended attributes.
For more information, see
Managing Associate App customizations
.
Streamlined barcode scanning validation
Retailers may have multiple barcodes on products where only one of them is a product identifier valid at NewStore. When scanning these barcodes, the app now quickly validates the barcodes and displays a message on the top of the screen with haptic feedback. A dialog box asking for confirmation from the associate no longer appears, speeding up the scanning process.
Tap to Pay on iPhone - international cards
NewStore has included an enhancement for
Tap to Pay on iPhone
which enables the US stores to now accept international credit cards. Prior to this enhancement, store associates would be presented with an error message when attempting to process a payment request using
Tap to Pay on iPhone
when the shopper was using an international credit card.
With this release, retailers and store associates can now offer convenience to shoppers, who will be presented with a prompt within Associate App for the shopper to enter the PIN associated with their international credit card. This new enhancement will also help to address payment error and failure rates when
Tap to Pay on iPhone
is associated with international credit cards.
It represents the first step in the
Tap to Pay on iPhone
expansion to support international shoppers.
Note
All devices currently using
Tap to Pay on iPhone
must be updated to a minimum version of iOS v16.4 and Associate App v1.36.0.
Catalog sorting by stock on hand
The product listing page continues to be improved.
After introducing the option to sort products by shipping availability for endless aisle, associates can now sort the product listing page on stock available in the current store. This allows associates to quickly find products for customers that come in and want something to take with them immediately.
Note
This capability requires that retailers use NewStore as the system of record for store inventory management.
Transfer Packing List
As the Transfer Packing List is a new document type, associates must configure the printer for this document type (from Associate App v1.36.0 and later), before they print any transfer packing lists as documents. Previously, it used the same packing list for both orders and transfers.
Important
For retailers that have the new printer framework turned on, associates must configure
Printer Settings
and assign the
Transfer Packing List
document type to the relevant printer.
Performance improvements
Rendering optimization during app navigation
We've optimized app navigation by eliminating unnecessary background operations. This addresses user feedback regarding sluggish response times and app instability, especially when adding items to the cart. With these optimizations, users can expect a smoother, faster, and more reliable app experience.
Adding multiple products to cart
We've significantly improved the speed of adding multiple products to the cart in response to user feedback about sluggishness and occasional unresponsiveness. This enhancement streamlines the process, providing a smooth, efficient, and more satisfying user experience when building carts in the app.
Bug fixes
Repeated product tap: Tapping the same product in a cart multiple times will now only open the Â action sheet once.
Multi-store login: Multi-store users can now login to the app even if a non-existing storeId was Â provided during application bootstrap.
Post-login product additions: The app no longer freezes when a product is added to the cart right Â after login.
Printing dialog timeout: The printing dialog now disappears after 5 seconds when the connection to Â the Zebra printer cannot be established.
Sidebar menu display: The sidebar menu now properly shows all menu items, even on small devices.
Bluetooth scanning: The Bluetooth scanner now recognizes all scanned UPC codes.
External order scanning: Scanning an external order code now correctly opens order details.
Order summary confirmation: The
Order Summary
screen will now inform the associate that a receipt was printed when using the
AirPrint only
printing mode.
Automatic logout: The automatic logout feature after phone lock will work again when leaving the
Coupon
screen without scanning or entering a coupon.
Multi-barcode scanning: The scanner no longer shows an infinite loading spinner if multiple Â barcodes are scanned at once.
Inventory date formats: Date formats now reflect the device locale during inventory flows.
Upcoming features
Revamped customer profiles
The customer screens in Associate App have been redesigned to make it easier and faster for associates to search for, create, and assign customers. With improved app stability and general UX enhancements, associates will enjoy a more seamless and efficient process to engage with customers in the store. NewStore will send out a separate communication, detailing capabilities and how retailers can receive the update.
Release v1.35.0
Release date
: June 12, 2023
New features
A hang tag template for additional pricebooks
To print in-store hang tags with custom prices, a new template called,
hangtag
has been introducted in the
Templates Editor
in Omnichannel Manager. Retailers can customize this template to provide an additional pricebook to a store and associates can print hang tags with custom prices.
For more information to configure the template, see
Customizing a template
and to configure the Associate App settings, see
Printing in-store hang tags using additional pricebooks
.
Improvements
Inventory management improvements
Transfer Packing list now available as a new document type
Stores can now print a packing list for transfers as a separate document type when processing transfers. This can now be configured to be printed separately from the
Store Fulfillment Packing List
document.
UPC-A and Code39 values available on the product cards
Associates can now view the UPC-A and Code39 values on the product card when performing inventory operations. This helps assocuates to easily identify the product by matching the codes on the hang tags with the codes in the app.
Access completed Transfer Orders
Associates can now access completed transfer orders in the app, so they can check the status of the transfer and can also reprint transfer documents such as shipping labels for the transfer.
Bug fixes
App no longer crashes if products are loaded without relevant currency information.
During clienteling operations, customer chat screen fetches incoming messages automatically.
Printing multi-page documents no longer mirrors every second page.
Printing documents using Airprint-only mode now shows in-app feedback to the associate.
Scanning multiple codes at once no longer slows down the app.
Associates are now logged out automatically when the phone is locked.
Bluetooth scanner now works with every available scanner view.
Adding different extended attributes to an order no longer fails when updating the cart slows down in the app.
Release v1.34.0
Release date
: May 22, 2023
New features
Reset the app
A new menu option has been introduced on the
Settings
screen that allows users to erase the local data stored in the app and reset the app when unexpected behavior occurs.
This action avoids having to re-install the app completely and allows users in the store to resolve related problems without relying on the retailer's IT team to resolve them via MDM.
Note
This action will result in deleting the user history list, user PINs, active carts, saved carts, and default printer selection so this feature should only be used when necessary to avoid additional effort for associates.
Improvements
Inventory management improvements
Packing list for transfers without a shipment
Stores can now print a packing list when initiating a transfer to another location even when there is no shipment with a carrier. This allows for easy identification of the box (sent from where to where) and the list of products that are included.
Improved scanning flow for transfers
When performing a store transfer, the scanning flow has been optimized to allow associates to continue to add & scan products without having to return back to the list of products in the transfer. This improved navigation will speed up the process for associates.
Manual quantity entry in inventory management
Associates can now enter the quantity for the item using the numeric keyboard throughout Inventory Management in addition to using the
+ / -
buttons to increment and decrement the quantity. Associates will see efficiency with products in large quantities.
Visibility to ASN shipment date and Order ID
In order to further improve the experience of inventory management, associates are now able to also see the shipment date and Order ID of the ASN, which helps them to prioritize tasks easily and effectively.
Return form added as a new document type
A
Return form
is now available as a new document type that can be configured when using the new printer management. This allows return forms to be printed and included in shipments fulfilled from the stores.
Optimized data fetching in the app
As part of an ongoing initiative to improve the stability and experience of the app, the data fetching behavior of the application was improved. This should reduce issues during the login as well as speed up communication between the app and platform.
Shipping availability on the PDP
Shipping availability is now displayed on the
Product Details
page. This makes it quick and easy for associates to identify if a product can be sold under endless aisle for delivery to the customer, without having to look up inventory or attempt to add it to the cart.
Note
This option will only be visible for retailers and/or stores that are configured for the endless aisle orders.
Currently, this option reflects global availability of the product and does not consider the location (DC or store) where the product is available or the destination address for delivery. This option will be evaluated for improvement in the future.
Improved gift card overview
The enhanced gift card overview that was first released in v1.29.0 along with gift card cashouts is now available for all retailers without requiring a configuration to enable it.
Bug fixes
App does not navigate to the
Customer
tab if the
Selling
section is disabled.
Quantity modal in inventory management is no longer covered by the keyboard, preventing the user from viewing the quantity.
Inventory transactions can no longer be duplicated when the user accidently taps the button in the app multiple times.
When using cash rounding, the correct rounded total amount is now displayed during the payment process as well as on the
Order Summary
screen.
Release v1.33.2
Release date
: May 15, 2023
Improvements
Clearing locally stored app data
Associates can now clear the local app data in
More
>
Settings
. This allows associates to avoid reinstalling the app in order to clear the locally stored data in the app.
Extended information in the app
Debugging potential issues is now easier with extended information added to the
About
section in the app.
Bug fixes
After completing payments during checkout, the app does not move back to the cart screen.
Issues with incomplete logout processes or incorrect PIN login processes have now been fixed.
Logs for potential issues have been enhanced with local app data.
Release v1.33.1
Release date
: May 4, 2023
Bug fixes
Reduced delays in cash drawer connectivity.
Improved storage of temporary app data.
Important
After applying this patch, reset your PIN and log into the app
again
for the changes to take effect.
Release v1.33.0
Release date
: May 1, 2023
New features
New sidebar navigation
To enable a unified and intuitive experience when using Associate App, a new sidebar navigation menu has been introduced to allow associates to access specific tasks:
Selling to customers
Fulfilling orders
Managing inventory
Setting up hardware in the store
This approach simplifies the experience for associates when navigating the app for day-to-day operations.
Important
The sidebar navigation menu is
automatically enabled
as soon as you update the app to v1.33.0 or later.
Using AirPrint enabled printers
To support retailers asking for custom printing options such as double-sided printing, the app now allows you to disbale the printer management framework and use an
AirPrint only
mode. In this mode, the app allows printing via AirPrint enabled printers in the store. See
the documentation
.
Important
Your content goes hereUsing the AirPrint only mode stops the app from being able to print via other printer models to print specialized documents, such as fiscal receipts or hangtags.
Bluetooth barcode scanner
The app now supports Bluetooth barcode scanners, to improve the scanning experience with iPads in the store.
Cash rounding
Associate App now supports cash rounding as a feature in countries where cash rounding is a requirement or is supported, such as in Australia or Canada. Associates no longer need to manually calculate change or reconcile deficit balances in the cash drawer because smaller denominations are not supported in their stores.
The app offers clear messages when rounding off cash (up or down) for payment transactions.
Cash rounding data is also available in the receipt templates, to allow you to add this to customer receipts. Omnichannel Manager also displays the actual cash amount captured after rounding off against respective cash drawers.
Event Stream also consumes the rounded cash amount for events that are emitted for cash sales transactions, in countries where cash rounding is applicable.
Improvements
Navigating back to the entry screen
Tap on tab bar icon of the active section now lets the associate navigate back to the entry screen. This is a generic behavior in iOS apps.
Use offline catalog for faster product ID verification when scanning
To speed up the scanning experience, the app now uses the offline catalog data to validate product IDs.
Note
This feature only works if offline catalog is enabled. See
Enabling offline catalogs
.
Improved error handling for Star printers
Error messages have been improved for issues that surface when handling Star printers in the store.
Display external identifiers for products
When managing inventory in the app, product cards now display all the external identifiers configured for your business.
Configurable manual quantity picker
When managing inventory in the app, you can configure a manual quantity picker to not be allowed for use, and enforce scanning of all items or units.
Bug fixes
UPC-A products are now recognized correctly by the DataScanner.
The printing dialog does not temporarily block print buttons in the app any more.
The app now updates the quantity when adjusting inventory after scanning more than 1 item.
Release v1.32.1
Release date
: April 13, 2023
Bug fixes
Pressing the confirmation button repeatedly during checkout in the app no longer causes cash payments to be accepted and processed multiple times for the same order.
Release v1.32.0
Release date
: April 10, 2023
New features
Multi-store users
It was challenging for retailers to manually handle the situations in which associates have to work in multiple stores or cover shifts in nearby stores.
We have now made this process easier by removing the need to change the associates' store assignment in NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
It is now possible to configure the store while installing the Associate App on the iPhone using a Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution. When the associate logs into the app, it automatically changes their store assignment, so retailers don't have to do it manually anymore.
Inventory operations
Receiving inventory
: Store associates can now receive shipments arriving from the warehouse against the Advance Shipment Notice (ASN). If enabled for the retailer, the shipments coming from the vendors can also be received without an ASN in the Associate App.
Counting inventory
: Cycle count tasks that are created by the head office or created through mispicks during store fulfillment (if configured) can now be performed in the Associate App.
Adjusting inventory
: Store associates can now adjust the inventory in the Associate App.
For more information, see
Using NewStore Associate App to manage inventory
.
Upcoming Features
Bluetooth barcode scanners
With the objective to improve the iPad experience, scanning has been identified as one of the biggest pain points for associates. We are experimenting with Bluetooth barcode scanners to evaluate scanning accuracy & speed as well as the user experience.
Improvements
Enhanced payment transaction processing with Tap to Pay on iPhone
A new performance enhancement has been introduced in payment processing for Tap to Pay on iPhone, aimed at improving the speed processing payment transactions. This enhancement optimizes the communication between the iPhone and the Adyen backend, resulting in faster transaction times and an improved payment experience for associates and customers.
Alphanumeric PIN support for gift cards
A new alphanumeric keyboard for gift cards has been introduced to support gift card providers that have alphabetical characters in the gift card PIN. The keyboard will default to the alpha mode but can easily be toggled to numeric mode, providing increased flexibility in gift card PIN entry.
Star Micronics printer discovery
When configuring the Star printers in the new printer management, discovery will no longer show printers that are already configured for the store, simplifying and avoiding confusion during the setup process.
Test page for AirPrint and Star Micronics printers
Test print will help to configure printers with regards to paper size and templates. As this was implemented for Zebra printer, printing a sample document is now also available for AirPrint and Star printers.
Scanner screen visualizes the scan region
This helps the associates to focus the barcode and scan easily by reducing the area of scanning. Note that it is initially be only available in inventory management, but expansion to other areas is under consideration.
App performance improvements
Certain app screens were optimized in an effort to improve app performance. Associates can notice the slightly improved performance with the drawer menu and also some other screens.
Improved handling of MQTT connection failures
In hardware fiscal countries (Italy & Poland), the MQTT connection flow is improved, and MQTT connection failures will now show an error message that will let associates try placing the order again.
Associates will also notice reduced fiscal printer connection errors during order placement in cases of bad network conditions.
Improved error visibility when generating shipping documents
When a shipment booking fails and the documents cannot be generated during order fulfillment, the error details are now provided in the Associate App. Also, associates can now retry printing each document that could not be generated with a newly added button.
Bug fixes
Orders requiring manager approval are now properly assigned to the associate and not the manager.
Printing with legacy printer management doesn't display the timeout banner.
Shipping documents are no longer rotated when printing with Star or Zebra printers.
After a gift card is scanned successfully, the scanner now stops scanning as required.
Business hours of the store are now displayed correctly in the Associate App.
Release v1.31.0
Release date
: March 20, 2023
Improvements
Add customized gift messages
Associates can now add customized gift messages for all items in a cart for a customer. See
Configuring gift messages
.
Improved gift receipts
Gift receipts now include the address of the store where the order was placed instead of the store where the gift receipt is being printed. See
Printing gift receipts
.
App selects the default printer for fiscal documents
Associates now do not have to manually select a fiscal printer while completing checkout for an order. The app now automatically selects a default fiscal printer to print fiscal documents related to an order in countries where hardware fiscal regulations apply.
Automatic store assignment for associates
When logging in, associates are automatically assigned to the store which has been appointed for the device via the MDM. Retailers do not need to manually assign associates to stores via Omnichannel Manager.
This improvement helps reduce the time and overhead when assigning associates to the right stores when they switch frequently between stores.
Bug fixes
Login experience for associates is now quicker than before.
Associates are not redirected to the
Selling
section when they return after locking the phone.
The
Drawer menu
is not accessible anymore before an associate has logged in using a PIN.
Processing blind returns do not slow down the app.
Tapping on a product image no longer causes the app to crash.
When a printer is removed from the store, the updated list of available printers is now displayed for all associates in the store.
Associates can now scroll down the list of available printers to select a printer.
The dialog box notifying associates of unsaved changes is no longer displayed if the associated printer has been deleted.
Release v1.30.1
Release date
: March 2, 2023
Bug fixes
Retailers can now print fulfillment documents via the app again.
Release v1.30.0
Release date
: February 27, 2023
Improvements
Improved coupon scanning experience
The app scanner now automatically dismisses the keyboard, and more design improvements have been made so that different screen sizes are supported. Additionally, a banner with an error message appears if a scanned coupon code has already been applied to the cart.
Transfer orders
Associates can now view Transfer Orders from the store and move relevant products to the specified destination. See
Using NewStore Associate App to manage inventory
.
Default printer support
The new printing framework now also supports a default printer, which makes printing multiple documents much easier.
Improved performance visibility
Improved traceability inside the app brings more insights on app performance and network requests.
Bug fixes
Applying a coupon on an already discounted item no longer crashes the app.
The
Product not found
alert now needs to be dismissed in order to scan another barcode.
When entering the order number manually, the order can be tapped and opened to view more details.
Scanner does not stay open when navigating through or closing the app.
Tapping
My Account
on a customer profile does not cause the app to crash.
Resolving issues in offline mode do not cause display of a wrong currency against the product.
When an associate switches the store, the printing location is also automatically changed.
Loading customer profiles with a huge number of orders does not degrade the app performance.
Release v1.29.2
Release date
: February 21, 2023
Improvements
Mark sales receipt as a copy for additional prints
As a legal requirement, it is not allowed in certain fiscal countries like
Sweden
or
France
to reprint the same sales receipt without marking it as a copy. To support upcoming store launches, the receipts will now be fetched and re-rendered as a copy, if necessary.
Bug fixes
Order history can now be properly accessed again.
Associates can access the customer profile by using the scanner or manually entering the customer details.
Zero amount orders can be placed properly in the app again.
Release v1.29.1
Release date
: February 8, 2023
Bug fixes
The customer information in the extended attributes can be modified again.
Release v1.29.0
Release date
: February 6, 2023
New features
Check gift card balance and cash-out
Retailers who use gift cards along with NewStore cash management can now check gift card balances. Associates can cashout the gift card balance amount to the customer.
For more information, See
Enabling gift card balance checks and cashout
.
Print transfer documents
Associates can now print the shipping labels and the packing slips in Associate App to complete the transfer.
For more information, See
Transferring inventory
.
Improvements
Scans only framed barcodes
The app scanner now scans only the product barcode from the frame.
New look and feel to payment screens
With the brand new look and feel of Associate App since v1.28.0, retailers can now see enhanced payment screens.
Miscellaneous retailer-specific app extensions
Bug fixes
During store fulfillment the
Reprint
button now opens the print dialog box properly.
When you finish scanning products, the camera goes away as expected.
Canceling printing documents takes you back to the earlier screen now.
When you cancel the printer selection, the error is not displayed anymore.
Release v1.28.3
Release date
: January 23, 2023
Bug fixes
App no longer displays a white screen when an associate tries to redeem a coupon via the app.
Release v1.28.2
Release date
: January 21, 2023
Bug fixes
App no longer crashes when an associate uses the drawer menu to switch between different sections in the app.
Release v1.28.1
Release date
: January 17, 2023
Bug fixes
The
Confirm
button is always available in the
Picking
screen when fulfilling an order in the app.
Release v1.28.0
Release date
: January 16, 2023
New Features
New look and feel
The first version of a brand new look and feel of Associate App is now available with this release. All retailers will use one unified color scheme and a more widespread use of our new UI toolkit. More design improvements are on the way.
Improvements
Book shipments for store transfers
Associates can now book a shipment for a store-initiated transfer in Associate App by selecting the required shipping option. Associates would still need to switch to Fulfillment App to print the transfer documents.
Disable printing gift receipts for returns
No gift receipts are generated in the app for returns, so the option to print them will not be available in the order summary screen in the app.
Miscellaneous retailer-specific app extensions
Bug fixes
Stage Switch
when
Testing app features
now gracefully shuts down the app and is more self-explanatory.
The app notifies the associate when autocomplete cannot find a specified address.
Product title and prices in offline carts are properly aligned in the UI.
Gift receipt printing is more resilient now.
Searching for customer profiles in the app is more reliable now.
App no longer crashes during the manager approval process.
Printing order documents with PII data works properly now.
Release v1.27.1
Release date
: January 5, 2023
Bug fixes
Product barcodes are now consistently recognized by the camera during scanning.
The Fulfillment option is always displayed in the
More
menu in the app.
NewStore Fulfillment App
Important
The
NewStore Fulfillment App
has reached its end of life (EOL) now. Instead, use the
NewStore Associate App
for inventory operations.
For release notes, see NewStore Fulfillment App
For more information on managing inventory operations, see
Using NewStore Associate App to manage inventory
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
Weâ€™re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use