Engage your customers
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Engage your customers
Updated on
Dec 2, 2024
Published on Oct 27, 2024
1 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore empowers retailers to build stronger relationships with their customers by utilizing NewStore's clienteling, loyalty, and external app integration capabilities. This feature enables store associates to deliver personalized interactions, drive customer loyalty, and engage customers through a seamless omnichannel experience.
Engaging customers can be in the form of:
Providing store associates with tools to interact with customers on a more personal level using Clienteling features in Associate App.
Integrates with Loyalty and Rewards programs to reward customers for their loyalty.
Offers flexibility through integration with external apps, enabling additional engagement and communication channels
How is engaging your customers important for your business or stores?
Enhances customer retention by providing personalized, relationship-driven interactions.
Increases customer lifetime value through loyalty programs that incentivize repeat business.
Strengthens customer engagement by allowing seamless integration with external tools and applications.
How do you engage customers via NewStore?
Customer Profiles
The Associate App allows in-store associates to quickly store and fetch data about their customers:
Create personalized customer profiles
Track order history and recommended products
Clienteling
The Associate App offers a suite of built-in Clienteling functionality that empowers your associates to engage customers in meaningful, relationship building, conversations.
Send customers direct texts, product links, and images, all from the Associate App.
One number shared across the store allows associates to easily keep track of their active conversations or step in to help peers to ensure coverage.
Associates can easily view customer profile data to guide more meaningful interactions.
Loyalty program integration
Retailers can integrate loyalty and rewards programs, enabling customers to earn points for purchases. The system tracks customer transactions and automatically applies rewards and benefits, encouraging repeat purchases and boosting your business.
Integrating external apps
This feature supports integration with third-party apps, such as email marketing or personalized customer data, to further engage customers outside of the store environment.
Retailers can use external tools to create seamless communication channels with these apps to continuously pull data from these sources.
Use cases and examples for leveraging data reports at NewStore
Personalized customer engagement
Store associates can use Associate App to send tailored recommendations based on customer purchase history, preferences, and previous interactions.
Rewarding customer loyalty
Customers earn points through loyalty programs, which are tracked in the NewStore platform. These rewards can be redeemed in-store or online, driving customer retention and repeat visits.
Omnichannel communication
With external app integration, retailers can communicate with customers via email, SMS, or social media, keeping customers engaged through multiple touchpoints.
Further reading
Clienteling
Loyalty and Rewards
External App Integration Guide
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
Associate App configuration
clienteling
configuration
integration
loyalty rewards
newstore platform
remote cart
remote selling
selling
selling experience
store
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use