Fiscal regulations in Poland
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in Poland
Updated on
Jan 9, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Fiscal regulations in Poland require that a dedicated
fiscal printer
is used in the store to print fiscally compliant sales receipts, and these
non-fiscal
order and sales related documents:
Return receipts
Sales receipts for cross-border transactions
Supported hardware
NewStore supports the following printer models as fiscal printers in Poland:
Posnet Thermal HD Online
Posnet Thermal XL2 Online
Fiscal printer setup
For stores operating in Poland, a fiscal printer must be set up in the store.
Retailers must acquire the fiscal printer and have it set up and serviced by a government authorized sales or service provider periodically for fiscal compliance.
An authorized service provider can configure:
Header and footer content and related fiscal information for your business during the initial activation
Header image
Note
Use the
Update store
method to configure the footer image for the fiscal printers that will be set up in a given store.
The specified footer image will be configured when the fiscal printer is set up, and will be printed on all supported documents.
Promotional messages that will be shown on the customer display
Fiscal printer management is performed via Associate App. To add a fiscal printer, see
Setting up a fiscal printer
.
Configuring the fallback tax rate
Ensure that the configured
tax fallback rate
is set to the highest possible VAT rate. The fiscal printer blocks items that have a higher VAT rate than the one they had when sold in the past.
For example, for
Dress Shirt X
, you have set the fallback tax fixed rate to
1%
, while the original tax rate for the item is
23%
. During a tax provider outage, the item will be sold at the fallback rate of
1%
.
The fiscal printer will block all transactions that involve
Dress Short X
after the tax provider is available, as it will have a tax rate of
23%
, but has already been sold with a tax rate of
1%
in the past.
Fiscal printer readiness checks
During order placement, the Associate App will perform a readiness check before moving to the payments. If the fiscal printer is not ready to process the transaction (for example, if the fiscal printer is out of paper, the printing mechanism is blocked, or the fiscal printer is not reachable), an error message will be displayed to the store associate.
Receipts for stores
Note
Customizing the
fiscal signature template
is not required for Poland since the fiscal receipts are printed by the fiscal printer.
Organization/company information of the retailer will be included in the receipt header. This information is configured by the authorized service provider when the printer is activated.
Transaction receipt number and the cash register identifier will be included in the receipt footer.
Emailed receipts are considered a non-fiscal document, and must include a non-fiscal indicator. For example,
NIEFISKALNY
.
Cross-border sale or return, which has non-local taxes, will produce a non-fiscal document.
For items returned by the customer, a non-fiscal receipt is generated that must be signed by the customer, along with a copy for the customer to keep.
For items exchanged by the customer, a separate fiscally compliant sales receipt is generated for the purchased item bought, along with 2 non-fiscal receipts for the item returned by the customer as an exchange.
Zero amount items will not be printed as line items in fiscal receipts.
Important
NewStore platform provides fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Fiscal reports
For stores operating in Poland, daily/monthly Z-report must be created through the Posnet fiscal printer(s) via Associate App within the expected periods. If a fiscal report is not created within the expected period, the first transaction of the next period will be blocked, and a warning message, which indicates a Z-report is required, will be shown to the store associate.
To generate fiscal reports, see
Printing fiscal reports
.
Fiscal audits
Fiscal audits are not pre-announced and can be conducted by the tax authorities at any given time at the store.
During an audit, auditors may check:
Fiscal reports from the fiscal printer(s).
Service log book of the fiscal printer(s).
For more information about the fiscal reports in Poland, see
Fiscal reports
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
documents
fiscal cashbox
fiscal printer
fiscal printers
fiscal regulations
fiscal reports
fiscal signature
fiscalization
platform
poland
receipts
taxes
template
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use