Shipping
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Shipping
Updated on
Dec 24, 2024
Published on Nov 15, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Shipping can be understood as a two-step process that consists of:
Offering shipping options: During
checkout
, shipping options are calculated and offered to the customer, to allow them to choose how and when they want their order delivered.
Booking a delivery: During
fulfillment
, a specific delivery time-slot is booked based on an estimate from the shipping provider confirming when the shipment can be delivered. At this point, the associate fulfilling the order can specify the shipping dimensions of the shipment and can confirm the final delivery slot. For more information on how to use the API to implement this, see
Booking a shipment
.
Note
NewStore sends an email confirmation to the customer when
all
the items in a fulfillment request have been shipped.
Shipping is one of the complex parts of your business to set up and manage. This guide will help you with:
Understanding shipping concepts
Planning your shipping solution
Integrating with shipping providers
Understanding shipping concepts
Before you set up your shipping, it's better to learn more about the following concepts:
Order routing
Shipping
Shipping aggregators
After you understand how shipping works in NewStore, you're ready to configure your general shipping options, and also use them for any products that require
custom shipping
configurations.
About shipping aggregators
A shipping aggregator is an external software vendor that partners with various shipping carriers to provide a single integration point. Shipping aggregators differ in their services based on the carriers they support or integrate with, their customs capabilities, their fees, and so on.
Shipping aggregators typically influence a specific region, because shipping carriers vary by regions.  The advantage of using a shipping aggregator is that customers can save money by shipping specific orders with specific carriers based on the best rate. From a NewStore perspective, we support a turnkey integration with EasyPost.
Using shipping aggregators
NewStore partners with shipping aggregators to enable shipping from stores. Every package shipped from a store, whether for a customer or internal transfer, must have a shipment booked for it. Below is a list of specific use cases where a shipping aggregator is used:
Getting shipping rates for potential orders
Booking shipments for orders
Refunding shipments for canceled orders
Automated recording of carrier pick ups
Tracking shipments through delivery
Creating shipping manifests of orders for carriers to pick up (Coming Soon)
Here is a list of shipping aggregators supported by NewStore.
Shipping aggregators supported by the NewStore platform
​
EasyPost: For more information, see the
EasyPost documentation
Shipping aggregators supported via a custom integration
​
Zenkraft
: For more information, see the
Zenkraft documentation
Shippit
: For more information, see the
Shippit documentation
StarShipIt
: For more information, see the
StarShipIt documentation
Planning your shipping solution
The following workflow will help you with a bigger picture understanding of getting started with shipping:
Creating your shipping solution: Before you begin setting up shipping, you have to determine your shipping solution.
Decide on the types of shipping you want to offer, such as 1 to 3 days delivery, express delivery, or custom shipping, and the pricing model for each level. You can also set up shipping policies, such as minimum order values for free shipping or shipping discounts for certain products. For more information, see
Setting up the strategy
.
Decide on the order fulfillment location. For more information, see
Integrating a fulfillment provider
.
Integrating with NewStore EasyPost shipping provider: You can integrate with EasyPost so that you can have access to different shipping carriers and their services throgh a single shipping aggregator. This may require some technical expertise, so you have to contact the
support team
and learn more about the
EasyPost
adapter.
However, you have to create a custom adapter under the following conditions:
To integrate directly with shipping providers, such as UPS, FedEx, or DHL
To integrate with another shipping aggregator (other than EasyPost)
For more information, see
Integrating a shipping provider
.
Note
You can use both, EasyPost and one or more custom adaptors, using configuration mappings between carriers. We recommend you to use the NewStore EasyPost shipping provider v3.1 to integrate with an EasyPost adapter, and v3.2 to integrate with a custom adapter.
Setting up a shipping carrier: A carrier configuration is a mapping between a
shipping_carrier_name
(from the fulfillment configuration) to a shipping provider. For more information, see
Configuring shipping settings
and the
Add/Update carrier config API
.
Validating your shipping solution: Once you have set up shipping in the platform, you can try a soft routing to make sure that set up is working correctly. You can test the shipping solution using the
Create routing options API
.
Monitoring and optimizing your shipping performance: After your shipping solution is enabled, you can monitor its performance to ensure that it is meeting your customers' expectations. You can track delivery times, shipping costs, and other metrics, and make adjustments to your shipping policies as required.
Note
You can use the
Shipment notification configuration API
to manage notification options for shipment statuses.
How shipping options are calculated
When a customer enters their shipping address, NewStore sends fulfillment locations where
ATP
exists for the products, to your shipping provider. The shipping provider creates shipping offers based on the information sent and returns shipping options for the order.
This is the workflow for calculating shipping options:
Related topics
Integrating a shipping provider
Integrating a fulfillment provider
Tutorial: Setting up a fulfillment configuration
Tutorial: Setting up a fulfillment configuration (Legacy method)
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Easypost
fulfillment configuration
international shipping
NewStore OMS
newstore platform
order fulfillment
routing
routing rules
shipping
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use