Fiscal regulations in Italy
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in Italy
Updated on
Jan 9, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Fiscal regulations in Italy require that a dedicated
fiscal printer
is used in the store to print fiscally compliant sales receipts, and
non-fiscal
sales receipts for cross-border transactions.
Supported hardware
NewStore supports the following printer models as fiscal printers in Italy:
Epson FP-81II RT
Epson FP-90III RT
Fiscal printer setup
For stores operating in Italy, a fiscal printer must be set up in the store.
Retailers must acquire the fiscal printer and have it set up and serviced by a government authorized sales or service provider periodically for fiscal compliance.
An authorized service provider can configure:
Header and footer content and related fiscal information for your business during the initial activation
Header and footer images
Promotional messages that will be shown on the customer display
Cash rounding in the fiscal printer
Note
Enable the cash rounding settings for your business before you enable the cash rounding configuration on the fiscal printer. For more information, see
Setting up cash rounding
.
When enabled, the rounding mode of the fiscal printer must be set to
Standard
.
Fiscal printer management is performed via Associate App. To add a fiscal printer, see
Setting up a fiscal printer
.
Fiscal printer readiness checks
During order placement, the Associate App will perform a readiness check before moving to the payments. If the fiscal printer is not ready to process the transaction (for example, if the fiscal printer is out of paper, the printing mechanism is blocked, or the fiscal printer is not reachable), an error message will be displayed to the store associate.
Receipts for stores
Note
Customizing the
fiscal signature template
is not required for Italy since the fiscal receipts are printed by the fiscal printer.
Organization/company information of the retailer will be included in the receipt header. This information is configured by the authorized service provider when the printer is activated.
Transaction receipt number and the cash register identifier will be included in the receipt footer.
Emailed receipts are considered a non-fiscal document, and must include a non-fiscal indicator. For example,
NON FISCALE
.
Cross-border sale or return, which has non-local taxes, will produce a non-fiscal document.
Return receipts will include a reference to the order that was returned.
For blind returns, the receipt reference will be indicated as
POS
with the current date.
For items exchanged by the customer, a separate sales receipt is generated for the purchased item(s), along with a return receipt for the item(s) returned by the customer.
Important
NewStore platform provides fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Fiscal reports
For stores operating in Italy, a daily Z-report must be created through the Epson fiscal printer(s) via Associate App for each working and non-working period.
If a daily Z-report is not created for a working or non-working period, the first transaction of the next period will be blocked, and a warning message, which indicates a Z-report is required, will be shown to the store associate.
When a daily Z-report is not created for a non-working period, the
PERIODO INATTIVO ESEGUIRE CHIUSURA
message will be shown on the display of the Epson fiscal printer.
To generate fiscal reports, see
Printing fiscal reports
.
Fiscal audits
Fiscal audits are not pre-announced and can be conducted by the tax authorities at any given time at the store.
During an audit, auditors may check:
Fiscal reports from the fiscal printer(s).
Service log book of the fiscal printer(s).
For more information about the fiscal reports in Italy, see
Fiscal reports
.
Lottery codes
To encourage the use of electronic payments and to promote proper fiscal conduct, the Italian tax agency introduced rules for receipt lottery.
Customers can participate in the receipt lottery with one of the following approaches if the receipt lottery requirements are satisfied:
Deferred flow - If the customer decides to provide their own lottery code, the associate can enter it in the Associate App, and the lottery code will be printed on the receipt. For more details, see
(Optional) Adding lottery codes
.
Lotteria Istantanea flow - If the customer does not provide their own lottery code, a lottery QR code will be printed on the receipt.
Deferred flow
NewStore allows you to set a lottery code for each transaction via Associate App for retailers operating in Italy. See
(Optional) Adding lottery codes
.
Once set, the lottery code is delivered to the tax authority in Italy only when the transaction contains an electronic payment, and the lottery code is printed on the receipt.
Note
The lottery code is only printed on the receipt if the code is delivered to the tax authority.
For returns with a reference sale that had a lottery code on it, the return receipt contains the lottery code printed on it as well, and is transmitted to the tax authority.
Lotteria Istantanea flow
With the instant lottery (
Lotteria Istantanea
) feature of the Epson RT fiscal printers, a lottery QR code that can be read via the Gioco Legale app will be printed on the receipt if the transaction satisfies the receipt lottery requirements.
Note
Lotteria Istantanea
feature is available in recent firmware versions of Epson RT fiscal printers, and it requires the registration process to be completed.
Tax exemptions
Supported from
This feature is supported from Associate App v1.53.0.
Tax exemption can be configured for an order during checkout, allowing the transaction to be fiscalized through the Epson RT fiscal printer with the configured exemption code.
Note
The default exemption code of
N3
will be used as a fallback in the following cases:
The exemption code mapping is not configured
A corresponding exemption code is not found for the selected tax exemption class
Important
By default, gift card items are exempted with the exemption code of
N2
without the need of tax exemption to be configured for an order during checkout.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
Update fiscal store API
can be used for configuring tax exemption class to exemption code mapping in Italian stores.
For more details on configuring tax exemption classes and enabling tax exemption in the app, see
Enabling tax exemption in the app
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
documents
fiscal printer
fiscal printers
fiscal regulations
fiscal reports
fiscal signature
fiscalization
italy
lottery codes
platform
receipts
taxes
template
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use