Configuring refund options
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Configuring refund options
Updated on
Jan 28, 2025
Published on Oct 30, 2024
6 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Refund options available to the store associates during returns via NewStore Associate App can be configured either for:
Each specific store for the retailer
All stores configured for the retailer
Important
Set up refund options on a global level (all stores) for retailers currently using NewStore Associate App v1.2.0 or later.
Setting up refund options for specific stores, however, is optional.
Configuring refund options with extension slots
For retailers that have set up
extension slots
in their version of NewStore Associate App for refunds, NewStore checks for refund options in this sequence:
Refund options set up in NewStore Associate App
extension slots
, in a way that they override all other configurations.
Refund options in extension slots that are set up to work with other refund options configured for the retailer via the
support team
. Based on how these extensions have been set up, this may include:
Using refund options configured by the
support team
. See
Setting up refunds
.
Using a pre-defined set of refund options created via the extensions.
For help with such refund options, contact the
support team
or
Team Mobile Apps
.
Configuring refund options without extension slots
For retailers that do not have extension slots configured for refunds, NewStore checks for refund options in this sequence:
NewStore checks the
payment_options
that have been
configured for a store
.
If no refund options are specified for a specific store, NewStore uses the refund options
configured globally
for the retailer.
Unless customized specifically for the retailer, the following refund options are displayed in NewStore Associate App:
Returns
: All refund options.
Blind returns
: All refund options except the original payment method.
Items returned for an exchange
: All refund options.
Configuring refund options for a specific store
Retrieve the current refund configuration using the
Get payment options configuration
method.
In the
store_mapping
>
refund_options
key, specify the list of refund options that are available to store associates in a specific store in NewStore Associate App.
Use the
Update payment options configuration
method to update the refund configuration for your business.
For example, specify
gift_card
instead of
adyen
as one of the available refund options in
refund_options
for the store (specified in
store_id
), where you want associates to use a gift card to issue refunds to the customer. See the example:
[
 {
   "payment_options": [
     "adyen_terminal",
     "cash",
     "gift_card",
     "adyen_pay_by_link",
     "square",
     "worldline"
   ],
   "refund_options": [
     "original",
     "credit_card",
     "gift_card",
     "worldline"
   ],
   "store_id": "store1_NYC"
 }
]
Gift card
is then displayed as one of the available refund options for this specific store during a
return
in NewStore Associate App.
Present Card for Refund
will be displayed as one of the available refund options for this specific store during a
return
in NewStore Associate App when Worldline is added to the refund options configuration - both at a store or at a global level.
Configuring global refund options
Retrieve the current refund configuration using the
Get payment options configuration
method.
In the
refund_options
key, specify a list of refund options that are available to store associates for the retailer, during returns via NewStore Associate App.
Use the
Update payment options configuration
method to update the refund configuration for your business.
For example, specify
original
,
credit_card
, and
gift_card
, for these refund options to be displayed to associates in NewStore Associate App for all stores for the retailer.
Refund options specified for a store overrides the configuration specified at the retailer level.
Using Worldline as a refund option
IMPORTANT
When using the Worldline payment integration, a payment terminal is REQUIRED for processing refunds. ALL refunds must be performed using the Associate App and a connected Worldline payment terminal.
The Worldline payment integration supports cash and carry payment and refund transactions. All payment and refund transactions will leverage the NewStore Associate App and a connected Worldline Payment terminal.
To perform a return with a refund or exchange with a refund when a retailer is using Worldline, store associates should perform the following steps:
Begin the return process and add the items from the original purchase that need to be returned to the cart.
Once the items have been added to the cart, Tap the
REFUND
The associate
will now be presented with a list of available refund options. To process a credit card refund using Worldline, the associate must select the
Present Card for Refund
option.
The associate should now connect to the desired payment terminal and complete the credit card refund using the payment terminal.
The associate app will receive confirmation from the payment terminal that the refund was processed.
IMPORTANT
For retailers using Worldline, the refund option of
Original Payment Method
will be greyed out and will not be available. This option is only available for CASH transactions when Worldline is the payment integration for the retailer.
Configuring and using granular external refund options
Supported from
This feature is supported from Associate App v1.51.0 and later..
Note
Prior to the release of Associate App 1.51.0, retailers using the non_integrated/External Payment and Refund option had only a single payment or refund option in the Associate App. After upgrading to Associate App version 1.51.0, retailers who do not want granular external payment options need not modify their existing configurations.
Retailers who choose to use more granular external refund options as part of the Associate App, along with the ability to track these granular payment options, must make the following configuration changes to enhance their store associate experience and their back office reconciliation data and visibility.
To create granular payment methods for external payments, use the
Update Payment Options Configuration
and follow the steps below:
Decide whether the configuration levels for non-integrated payment options will be global or store-specific.
Add
non_integrated
to the list of refund options at the appropriate level.
Define the
non_integrated_methods_definition
object, which will map custom granular payment/refund methods to a key (used for event stream and payloads).
Now, set up the
non_integrated_methods
list for each store you want to display granular external methods in, or on the global level if you want to display the same in every store. This list will reference the methods you created definitions for by key.
This configuration adds the
External Refund
option to the NewStore Associate App's refund options list and enables the user to display and select from a listing of granular refund methods under the
External Refund
option.
Visibility of external refund transactions
Retailers can validate and monitor external refund transactions and the specific granular refund methods used in them. Transactional details are available via the NewStore Omnichannel Manager, event stream, payment APIs, and NewStore Insights.
NewStore Omnichannel Manager visibility
The NewStore Omnichannel Manager provides payment visibility on orders where external payments/refunds have been applied. For these transactions, the user is shown the specific external payment/refund method selected and the amount processed per payment method.
API usage and visibility
In the payment accounts API, the call to get a summary of the payment account uses the “method” and “PSP” objects. The “PSP” object records “non_integrated” as its value, and the “method” object records the “property name” of the non-integrated payment method.
Event stream visibility
As part of the NewStore event stream schema, external payment/refund information can continue to be found under
instruments
>
payment_method
.
NewStore insights visibility
Transactions that have external payments/refunds as part of the order are displayed within NewStore insights and use the value from "property name" in the payment configuration. These transactions are reflected in the "Payment Method" column.
Related topics
Configuring payment providers
Placing orders
Integrating a payment service provider
Integrating a gift card provider
Integrating Adyen
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
external payment options
external refund
newstore platform
payment
payment device
payment options
refund
store
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use