Web Order Injection
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Web Order Injection
Updated on
Jul 9, 2025
Published on Mar 11, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Before commencing web
Order
injection, we must first configure payment settings for e-commerce orders. For this exercise, we will not be integrating with a live payment provider. Instead, we will utilize an external payment method that lets you inject the order without having a real payment provider integration.
Tutorial
Refer to
Configuring payment providers
for guidance on integrating with live payment providers.
To create an order, you'll need to provide basic information including customer details (email, name, address, phone),
Product information
, payment details, and shipping information.
Injection API
The create order API is documented here -
Order Injection API
Pass
payments[0].processor
as
non_integrated
Please pass a valid
service_level
from the fulfillment configuration value in
service_level_identifier
under
shipments
>
shipping_option
. If you need to generate the
shipping_offer_token
instead, then use
Create routing options
to generate the
shipping_offer_token
.
You can find the sample payload for the order injection payload below.
sample-ecom-order
1.26 KB
Upon successful order injection, the order will be routed to the designated
Distribution center
(DC)
Location
, contingent upon the
Remorse period
. However, if the required is unavailable for either a portion or the entire order, the order will be placed on hold, pending further action.
Routing rules
If the retailer wishes to enable automatic re-routing of the order once inventory becomes available, they can simply toggle on. Refer to the platform documentation on how to enable the automatic re-routing. 'enable_automatic_rerouting' switch to the 'on' position. This will allow the system to automatically re-route the order when inventory levels are replenished.
If the retailer desires to automatically cancel orders when inventory is unavailable, please ensure that the 'cancel_on_conflict' configuration is set up with the appropriate reasons. This will enable the system to automatically cancel orders when inventory conflicts arise.
Upon routing the order to the Distribution Center (DC) location, the DC fulfillment webhook is triggered, transmitting the order information to the DC. As a best practice, it is recommended to update the
Fulfillment request
status to 'Accepted' once the work order has been successfully sent to the DC or the DC has acknowledged acceptance of the fulfillment request. This ensures accurate tracking and visibility of the order's progress.
Accept Fulfillment
Use the
Accept Fulfillmen
t request to mark the fulfillment request as accepted by DC.
Please note that this API is applicable only for DC fulfillment requests
Upon acceptance of the fulfillment request at the Distribution Center (DC), the order can subsequently be shipped, canceled, or rejected. At this stage, the DC has acknowledged receipt of the request and is now responsible for executing the next steps in the fulfillment process.
Fulfillment Providers
Use the following APIs to mark the item as shipped, canceled, or rejected.
Mark full or part of the fulfillment request as Shipped
Mark full or part of the fulfillment request as Cancelled
Mark full or part of the fulfillment request as Rejected
When a fulfillment request contains multiple line items and a portion of it is rejected, the platform will await further instruction from the Distribution Center (DC) regarding the remaining items in the request. Once the platform receives a response (shipped, canceled, or rejected) from DC for the unaffected items, it will re-route the rejected line items based on the routing config and the current inventory picture.
(Also Sales order, Sale, Purchase)
A promise to deliver or sell goods or services. In NewStore, an order can be created via NewStore Associate App or imported from other systems. See
Order placement
,
Shopping cart
, and
Importing orders
.
Information about a product offered in a channel. Product information is only related to content, and not to price and availability. In NewStore Omnichannel Cloud, a product is derived from a
Master product
.
(Also DC, Warehouse)
A location that stocks products to be redistributed to other locations in your business or directly to customers. A distribution center is a principal part of the order fulfillment process.
A place from where the item can be fulfilled by the retailer or collected by the customer. Typically a
Distribution center
or a
Retail store
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
(Also Grace period, Cooling-off period)
The configurable period of time following the placement of an order, when the customer may choose to cancel the order. This is also called a remorse period or cooling-off period. In NewStore, the grace period can be configured for the business as a whole or in the
Service level
set in the fulfillment configuration.
A request sent to the
Fulfillment location
. This request is generated in the following cases:
DC
fulfillment
store fulfillment
in-store purchase
See
Integrating a fulfillment provider
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use