Returns
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Returns
Updated on
Jun 26, 2025
Published on Mar 11, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Prerequisites
Complete
Module 1 - Foundational Step
before you proceed on to
Returns
.
When a customer wants to return a , the store associate can easily look up the using various methods:
Scanning the QR code on the  (paper or email)
Entering the order number in the Associate App
Using the Gift receipt
Searching by customer  (if associated with the order)
Once the order is selected, the associate can begin the return process, which will prompt them to enter:
A return reason code
The item condition (return disposition code) of the product being returned
Return Reasons →
Return reasons are configured by the retailer to align with their unique business requirements. Return reasons need to be translated and set up for each store  to ensure accurate language displays. ReferManaging reason codes to understand how the reason codes can be configured
Return Reason
To create and manage all reason codes, including localized translations, go to
Settings > Reason Codes
in NOM.
Return disposition configs →
When processing a product return, retailers can implement a quality assurance (QA) process, as part of their return policy, to evaluate the item's condition and determine whether it can be accepted as sellable or non-sellable. To enable this functionality, two configurations need to be done.
return_process_configuration in the AA configuration will enable the display of the disposition code in the AA UI. Refer Configuring returns to know more about setting up return_process_configuration in AA config.
Return configuration (optional) → With this configuration, you can designate a specific  in your store to store returned items and assign a condition code to manage the return process. If this configuration is not done, then by default, the  movement will happen to the main (sellable) . Refer to
Module 3: Store inventory management (Part 1)
and return setup for inventory management setup.
After selecting the return reason code and condition (return disposition code), the associate can add more products to the return if needed. If there are no more products to be returned, the associate can apply the credit amount to the cart and refund the amount back to the customer based on the store's configured refund options
Refund Options →
Refund options are available to the store associates during returns via the NewStore Associate App. Refer to
Configuring refund options
to understand how the refund options can be configured for a store. The refund options can be configured either for:
Each specific store for the retailer
All stores configured for the retailer
Additionally, the retailer can choose to configure several other return-related options, including:
A return window to limit the timeframe for returns
A restocking fee to be deducted from the refund amount
Automatic refund of shipping costs if the entire order is returned
Additional Configurations →
Beyond the required configurations mentioned above, there are additional options that can be set up to unlock more features and enhance functionality.
Return Window - We can configure a return window to control the timeframe within which orders can be returned, preventing older orders from being processed. This setup can be done using the
Item Return Configuration API
, specifically by setting the 'return_window' attribute to define the desired timeframe.
Return Fee - To charge a restocking fee, retailers can utilize the return fee feature offered by the NewStore platform, allowing them to easily deduct a specified amount from the refund amount.  We can enable this feature using /l , specifically by setting the 'return_fee' attribute to define the desired restocking fee. This is a global configuration, so the fee is the same for all the currencies.
Refund Shipping cost → If the retailer wishes to refund the shipping cost on return of the entire order is returned, then the feature can be enabled using
Item return configuration
, specifically by setting the 'refund_shipping_cost' attribute.
To update the return template, identify the corresponding files using
Customer documents and notifications
and update the file using
Customizing templates
.
If the associate is unable to locate the order through the usual means, the retailer can enable the  feature. This allows the associate to:
Search for the product in the
Refund the amount based on the current catalog
Optionally adjust the return product price
To enable blind returns, all regular return configurations must be in place. Keep in mind that blind returns, which lack a reference sales order, do not support refunds to the original  by default. Associates will need to choose a different refund method in these cases.
Refer to the tutorials mentioned
here
, to enable blind returns.
A revenue account to record negative sales as a result of credit notes for returns of merchandise. See
Returning items
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use