Configuring payment options
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Configuring payment options
Updated on
Jan 28, 2025
Published on Oct 30, 2024
5 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Retailers and partners can define which payment options should be available for store associates as part of the payment process during checkout. The available payment options can be configured for the business globally or for each store.
Configuring payment options for a retailer
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
Use the
Get payment options configuration
method to retrieve the payment options available to store associates in your business, during checkout in NewStore Associate App.
To update the list of payment options, use the
payment_options
key in the
Update payment options configuration
method to specify an updated list of payment options.
As of Associate App v.1.51.0, the payment options available are:
adyen_terminal
- This payment option is available for retailers where NewStore is integrated with Adyen as the payment provider. The Associate App displays the payment option as "Credit Card Reader" and "Manual Credit Card Reader".
cash
- This payment option is available for retailers that accept cash as a form of payment. The Associate App displays the payment option as 'Cash'.
gift_card
- This payment option is available for retailers that accept gift cards as a form of payment. It does not impact issuance or sales of gift cards as products. The Associate App displays the payment option as "gift Card".
adyen_pos
- This payment option is available for retailers with Adyen as the payment provider, and Tap to Pay on iPhone is an approved Adyen feature. Contact Adyen to know about enabling Tap to Pay on iPhone for your tenant account. The Associate App displays the payment option as "Tap to Pay on iPhone".
adyen_pay_by_link
- This payment option is available for retailers using the NewStore Checkout option to accept in-store payments using a QR code via customer phone. The Associate App displays the payment option as "Customer Phone".
worldline
- This payment option is available for retailers integrated with Worldline as the payment provider. When this payment option is added to the payment options for a store, the Associate App will display the payment option as “Credit Card Reader”.
non_integrated
- This payment option is available for retailers with stores or locations where the payment systems are not integrated with NewStore. There may be a specific payment system, such as employee purchase plans, unique credit card processing systems, or geographies where no integrated payment option is available for NewStore. In these situations, retailers can leverage the non_integrated (external payment) option to use the NewStore Associate App to process orders and fulfill the payment transactions outside the NewStore platform. The Associate App displays the payment option as "External Payment".
Note
By default, retailers using NewStore Clienteling and Remote Selling use
adyen_pay_by_link
. Enabling the payment option for in-store payments will not impact clienteling.
Configuring payment options globally
To enable payment options within the NewStore Associate App globally for all stores:
Go to the
payment_options
key in the
Update payment options configuration
method.
Add the specific payment options from the list above to the list of payment options applicable for your business.
This adds the specific payment option to the list of payment options in NewStore Associate App, and allows associates to accept specific payment options when completing the checkout process. For more information, see
Choosing a payment option
.
Configuring payment options for a specific store
To enable payment options for a specific store:
Use the
Get payment options configuration
method to retrieve the payment options available to store associates in your business, for a specific store in your business.
To update the list of payment options for the store (specified in
store_id
), use the
store_mapping
>
payment_options
key in the
Update payment options configuration
method to specify an updated list of payment options.
For example, specify
adyen_pos
as one of the available payment options in
payment_options
for the store (specified in
store_id
), where the Tap to Pay on iPhone payment is to be enabled.
Note
When configured at a store level, the store level configuration overrides the global setting.
Configuring and using granular external payment options
Supported from
This feature is supported from Associate App v1.51.0 and later.
Note
Prior to the release of Associate App 1.51.0, retailers using the non_integrated/External Payment option had only a single payment or refund option in the Associate App. After upgrading to Associate App version 1.51.0, retailers who do not want granular external payment options need not alter their existing configurations.
Retailers who choose to use more granular external payment options as part of the Associate App, along with the ability to track these granular payment options, must make the following configuration changes to enhance their store associate experience and their back office reconciliation data and visibility.
This added flexibility and granularity provides retailers with better reconciliation visibility and tracking within NewStore and their ERP platforms.
To create granular payment methods for external payments, use the
Update Payment Options Configuration
and follow the steps below:
Decide whether the configuration levels for non-integrated payment options will be global or store-specific.
Add
non_integrated
to the list of payment options at the appropriate level.
Define the
non_integrated_methods_definition
object, which will map custom granular payment methods to a key (used for event stream and payloads).
Now, set up the
non_integrated_methods
list for each store you want to display granular external methods in, or on the global level if you want to display the same in every store. This list will reference the methods you created definitions for by key.
This configuration adds the
External Payment
option to the NewStore Associate App's payment options list and enables the user to display and select from a listing of granular payment methods under the
External Payment
option.
Visibility of external payment transactions
Retailers can validate and monitor external payment transactions and the specific granular payment methods used in them. Transactional details are available via the NewStore Omnichannel Manager, event stream, payment APIs, and NewStore Insights.
NewStore Omnichannel Manager visibility
The NewStore Omnichannel Manager provides payment visibility on orders where external payments have been applied. For these transactions, the user is shown the specific external payment method selected and the amount processed per payment method.
API usage and visibility
Within the payment accounts API, the
property name
used in external payments is mapped to the
method
object and
non_integrated
is mapped to the
PSP
object.
Event stream visibility
As part of the NewStore event stream schema, external payment information can continue to be found under
instruments
>
payment_method
.
NewStore insights visibility
For reporting purposes in omnichannel insights, the "Payment Method" column reflects the "property name" used in external payments.
Related topics
Placing orders
Integrating a payment service provider
Integrating a gift card provider
Integrating Adyen
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Adyen
cash drawer
cash management
config api
configuration
event stream
external payment options
gift card
payment
payment device
payment options
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use