Availability
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Availability
Updated on
Apr 2, 2025
Published on Mar 11, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
This section covers two purposes. The first is to create the
Fulfillment location
for the stores we created in the previous section, but also to load
Inventory
availability for the products we loaded in the data load section.
Knowing the position of stock availability is a critical component in an omnichannel organization. This section covers how NewStore calculates inventory availability, however, the management of inventory movement will be documented in a separate module.
Inventory within NewStore is stored against each
Location
, whether this is virtual or physical locations. Against each location, two primary inventory numbers are used to manage inventory.
Stock on hand
- this number should reflect the total number of units in the location regardless of its movement status. This is the base number used to calculate the available to promise number.
Available to Promise (ATP) - this reflects the number of units available to sell.
Depending on the scope of the implementation, there are two modes of setup when it comes to how NewStore sees uses inventory numbers; these are
NewStore is the master of store on hand stock management and the availability of units within all store locations. In this mode Warehouse movements are still controlled by a WMS system, and available for NewStore via availability data imports.
NewStore subscribes to availability in all locations. In this mode, NewStore will require frequent updates to the available to promise numbers.
Available to Promise (ATP) calculation
The ATP calculation is based on the below numbers. Note that NewStore currently cannot support managing stock in weight or volume.
Stock On hand
The calculation starts with a base stock on hand number. The number only gets adjusted up or down when the item physically moves in and out of the locations.
Reservation
The number of units currently allocated to be delivered from this location. Item or
Order
cancellation can reduce this number as the items are to be committed for fulfillment. A reservation is transformed into an allocation as soon as the order item is routed after the grace period.
Allocation
The number of units currently in the process of being fulfilled. This number reflects the converted reservation to fulfillment commitment.
Safety stock
The number of units permanently reserved from order fulfillment operations is typically used to make certain the store has availability within the
Retail store
. The number can also be used by an ERP system as a trigger for auto-replenishment.
Current ATP
The current ATP is calculated by summing the Reservation, the Allocation, and Safety Stock elements and removing this from Stock On Hand numbers.
Future ATP
The future ATP considers stock which will be available in the future as part of the pre-selling functionality of NewStore. This is only available for DC locations.
See more in Importing stock information
To create the fulfillment node for the stores you have created, perform a stock import refer to the tutorial mentioned in the
platform documentation
.
Note
Without a fulfillment node created for the store, orders will not transition into the “Completed” state and will be stuck in “Pending”.
A location that has ATP inventory for a product, and can fulfill an order. This can be a store or a warehouse or
Distribution center
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
The complete list of goods in stock. In finance, an asset account to record movements in goods as a result of receipts, shipment, returns, or adjustments.
A place from where the item can be fulfilled by the retailer or collected by the customer. Typically a
Distribution center
or a
Retail store
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
(Also On hand stock)
This term outside NewStore, refers to the quantity of a stock-keeping unit that is physically available to sell, at a location, including
Hard allocation
,
Soft allocation
, and
Safety stock
.
(Also Sales order, Sale, Purchase)
A promise to deliver or sell goods or services. In NewStore, an order can be created via NewStore Associate App or imported from other systems. See
Order placement
,
Shopping cart
, and
Importing orders
.
(Also Store)
A retail store where goods are sold and where inventory may be stored to process fulfillment.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use