Administrate the app
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Administrate the app
Updated on
Nov 20, 2024
Published on Oct 17, 2024
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore provides retailers with essential tools to configure and manage Associate App, so you can tailor the app to your business needs efficiently. Learn how you can set up and manage hardware devices like printers, card readers, and Bluetooth scanners, streamline store operations, and ensure a seamless end-to-end selling experience for your associates in the store.
Performing these administrative actions and prerequisite steps allow you to handle setup and technical requirements, and help your associates deliver better customer experiences.
What administrative tasks can you perform via Associate App that can help set up your stores and efficiently conduct business?
Device management
: Connect and configure hardware such as printers, payment terminals and card readers, and Bluetooth scanners directly through the app.
App requirements
: Set up the app with the necessary technical and system requirements for optimal performance.
Store operations
: Set up the app to manage in-store functions like checkout and payment transactions with ease.
Why is this important for your business or stores?
Improves efficiency
: Streamlines setup and administration, so associates can focus primarily on selling.
Increases reliability
: Ensures that the app and hardware are correctly configured and running smoothly, reducing downtime for your business.
Simplifies device management
: Provides easy configuration for essential devices like scanners and printers, improving in-store workflows and enhanced associate performance in the store.
Setup and administrative actions in the app
The following sections give an overview of how you can set up and administrate Associate App to make it ready for day-to-day processes and workflows in the store:
App and hardware requirements:
Understand the basic setup needs and hardware requirements, ensuring Associate App runs smoothly. For more information, see
Requirements Guide
.
Account and store setup (ABM setup)
: Configure accounts, manage permissions, and set up store profiles with Account-Based Management (ABM) tools for an organized start. For more information, see
ABM Setup
.
Bluetooth scanning
: Configure Bluetooth scanners to improve checkout efficiency and make it easier to manage scanning products. For more information, see
Bluetooth Setup
.
Printer configuration
: Set up and manage printers to allow easy receipt printing, label printing, and other in-store printing needs. For more information, see
Printer Configuration
.
Card reader integration
: Connect and manage card readers to streamline payment processes, making checkout quick and easy for customers. For more information, see
Card Readers
.
Store operations management
: Learn how to manage essential store functions, from processing transactions to setting up tasks, all within the Associate App. For more information, see
Store Operations
.
Use cases and examples for administrating Associate App
You can use the data analysis and reporting from NewStore in a varied range of situations, where data driven decisions will help you optimize business performance. Some use cases have been described briefly below, which can be investigated in detail in the relevant sections.
Setting up a new store location
When opening a new store, administrators or IT teams in your business, or NewStore partners, can set up and configure printers, card readers, and scanners quickly, reducing setup time and allowing the store to start serving customers sooner.
Managing in-store transactions
Card reader and cash drawer integration ensures that all payment transactions are smooth and secure, helping associates provide a seamless checkout experience.
Troubleshooting hardware
If a Bluetooth scanner or printer stops working, store associates can use the setup guides to reconnect the device, minimizing downtime, and avoiding potential interruptions in service.
Further reading
Requirements Guide
ABM Setup
Bluetooth Setup
Printer Configuration
Card Readers
Store Operations
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use