Shopping App Android Core Updates
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Shopping App Android Core Updates
Updated on
Jul 9, 2025
Published on Mar 17, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Release v1.140.0
Release date:
June 25th, 2025
This release introduces additional accessibility enhancements, aligning with the
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
, to make Shopping App inclusive and user-friendly for everyone.
New features
🎉
Touch Targets Review
Reviewed all interactive UI elements to meet the recommended size of 48dp in support of users with limited dexterity. The valid area for touch interaction of components across the Shopping App has been updated to meet this accessibility guideline.
Landscape Mode support
Added support for landscape orientation. Landscape Mode provides users with greater flexibility based on their preferences.
Retailers can enable or disable landscape mode through configuration by storefront.
To enable, go to
Account
>
Settings
>
Accessibility
. The app is portrait-first by default for optimal usability.
Release v1.139.0
Release date:
May 26, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of Android core v1.139.0.
New features
🎉
Repeat onboarding screens
You can now redisplay onboarding screens after a set number of days if a user dismissed or did not proceed with the onboarding. Each onboarding screen can be configured with specific
Onboarding Interval Days
.
Contact your Ominchannel Success Manager to enable
Onboarding Interval Days
. This feature is available for new installs from version 1.138.0 onward.
Improvements
💪
Filter and Sort button review for accessibility
The
Filter and Sort
button now changes background color based on its active or inactive state. The background color, in combination with the dismissal button, helps users understand whether filters or sorting options are currently applied. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Toolbar headings review and tags for accessibility
Updated all toolbar headings to include proper heading tags. Screen readers like TalkBack can now announce the screen titles as soon as the screen loads. This provides immediate context for users and assists in smoother navigation. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Release v1.138.0
Release date: March 31, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of Android core v1.138.0, which brings single-choice filters for more granular user filtering options, enhanced peak time reliability with improved autoscaling, and a fix where combining favorite synchronization and remembered last size resulted in incorrect product configurations.
Improvements
💪
Single-choice filters
Added support for single-choice filters (
equality search
). Now, brands can offer more granular filtering to their user, such as a price discount percentage filter. For example, up to 10%, up to 30%, or up to 50%.
Peak time reliability with autoscaling
Improved autoscaling across various backend services to ensure further platform reliability and resilience during peak time. Now, you can direct traffic to your Shopping App even more confidently.
Bug fixes 🐞
Favorites Synchronization and Remember Last Size
Fixed an issue where using
Favorite Synchronization
together with
Remember Last Size
feature caused the wrong product configuration to load when opening a product from the
Favorites
list.
Release v1.137.0
Release date: March 10, 2025
We're excited to announce a new version of Android core v1.137.0. This release includes adaptations for accessibility, a new Quick Action Button, improved push notification handling for Emarsys, and various technical improvements.
New features
🎉
Dynamic text sizes for accessibility
The Android app supports dynamic text sizes. Users can now adjust text sizes via system settings for a more inclusive experience. This enhancement aligns with the
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
requirements. The act ensures that digital products and services, including e-commerce apps, are accessible to people with disabilities or impairments.
Early Access: Quick Action Button
The
Quick Action Button
allows brands to highlight one essential feature to their Shopping App users, for example, a live chat, loyalty program dashboard, or support hub. Customers can instantly access the key app screen using this button from anywhere in the Shopping App.
This is a floating button that can be dragged up and down. It always remains visible and allows seamless navigation to a defined view or App Extension in the app. The button is configurable by country and language and can be enabled without requiring a new app update.
This feature is in Early Access. Contact your Omnichannel Success Manager to have this enabled.
Improvements
💪
Account form
Added the ability to hide the account editing form in the Account tab. Brands now have greater flexibility in choosing where users can edit their details.
UI elements labels for screen-reader accessibility
Added descriptive labels to the user interface elements to improve screen-reader accessibility. Labels make it easier for visually impaired users to navigate and use the app with a screen-reader. This is a step forward towards
European Accessibility Act (EAA)
readiness.
Bug fixes 🐞
Push notifications
Push notifications sent from SAP Emarsys without a deeplink will reliably navigate users to the app.
Product configuration
The configuration button now redirects users to App Extensions also for products without configuration options.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use