Module 6: Store fulfillment
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Module 6: Store fulfillment
Updated on
Mar 11, 2025
1 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
We are thrilled to announce our partnership with Dodici, the esteemed luxury fashion brand from Milan, Italy. As part of their strategic initiative to elevate customer satisfaction, their VP of Retail has outlined key requirements, including the integration of store inventory into e-commerce and enabling stores to fulfill home delivery orders. To meet these requirements, we will expertly configure the ship-from-store capability within the NewStore platform, delivering a seamless, customer-centric experience that upholds Dodici's exceptional luxury brand standards. This collaboration will undoubtedly enhance the shopping experience for Dodici's discerning customers while reinforcing our commitment to driving innovation in the retail industry.
Enabling ship-from-store allows retailers to utilize their store inventory to ship products directly to customers, offering numerous benefits. By leveraging store inventory, retailers can significantly reduce shipping time and cost, getting products to customers faster and increasing the likelihood of on-time delivery. This not only enhances the customer experience but also opens up more sales opportunities. With ship-from-store, retailers can offer a wider range of products, including those that may not be available in their warehouse or distribution center. Additionally, fulfilling orders from stores to customers nearby opens up the option to offer same-day delivery using a courier service. By enabling ship-from-stores, retailers can increase customer satisfaction, drive sales growth, and gain a competitive edge in the market.
Success Criteria
Upon completing this module, you will be able to:
Inject web order and, based on routing config and inventory levels, route the order to the store location
Complete the pick and pack process for the ordered items
Hand over the shipment to the carrier for delivery
Validate the following:
Emails triggered (e.g., order confirmation, shipment notification)
Receipts printed (e.g. pickup receipt, shipment receipt)
In the event of unavailable items:
Identify and mispick the unavailable item(s) from the Associate App (AA)
Take appropriate action to notify the customer and resolve the issue
To conclude this module, please share:
A screenshot of the order detail view in NOM for an order which was routed and fulfilled from a store
A copy of the return form generated by NewStore for that order.
A screenshot of the order item history which was mispicked during the fulfilment process, including your observations what happened to the order after the mispick and why.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use