Managing inventory sync with the Event stream
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Managing inventory sync with the Event stream
Updated on
Nov 13, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
This guide focuses on integration using the
Event Stream
, this is the recommended way. The older alternative is available at
Managing inventory sync
.
Note
If you work with an ERP that manages fulfillment and no other applications in your project need fulfillment-related data, you do not need this guide. Instead, refer to
Integrating a fulfillment provider
and
Importing data
.
Syncing inventory is a continual 2-way process that involves:
Syncing inventory to other applications
Syncing inventory to NewStore Omnichannel Cloud
How inventory sync works
To sync inventory changes from your business into NewStore Omnichannel Cloud, develop an adapter. An adapter serves as an intermediary integration layer that communicates directly with NewStore Omnichannel Cloud on one side and with business applications that you want to integrate NewStore with, on the other.
Let's assume your product stock is 10. If 4 items of this product were shipped as part of different orders, here's how inventory will be synced.
The workflow is as follows:
NewStore sends fulfillment data items to an adapter via fulfillment request events with logical timestamps to identify the items that failed, were assigned or were completed.
The adapter syncs inventory changes and remove allocations in your business.
On NewStore side, when you import stock into NewStore, include a range of logical timestamps for which to remove allocations.
When an item is shipped, the
fulfillment_request.items_completed
event is emitted.
Each fulfillment event in NewStore is for one item and it is associated with a logical timestamp. A logical timestamp is a number that consistently increases and helps arrange fulfillment events in the sequence in which they occurred. If fulfillment events ff1, ff2, ff3, and ff4 are assigned logical timestamps 10, 11, 12, 13 respectively where 13 is the highest, ff4 is the most recently fulfilled item.
When an item is shipped,
allocation
for the associated item is removed from NewStore Omnichannel Cloud.
Syncing inventory
Here's a quick overview of the methods to implement and sync inventory between NewStore Omnichannel Cloud and other applications:
Syncing inventory to other applications
Once you implement the
Publish event
method, the webhook sends you data about several events. In the context of fulfillment, the following events are emitted:
fulfillment_request.assigned
: allows you to initially retrieve the fulfillment id.
fulfillment_request.items_completed
: tells you which items have been fulfilled. If needed, you can use this event to ensure that the ERP releases the
allocation
s for the fulfilled items.
fulfillment_request.items_failed
: tells you which items failed to be fulfilled. The allocations for these items are released for that location and the request is automatically routed to another fulfillment location. If no location can fulfill, the order is put on hold.
See the
Event stream webhooks documentation
for a description of the content of the event.
Note
You should use the
fulfillment_request.items_completed
event instead of the
order.completed
event:
order.completed
doesn't include where the item was shipped from.
order.completed
doesn't include the logical timestamp which controls the allocation release on
ATP
import.
Syncing inventory to NewStore Omnichannel Cloud
Use the import job to sync inventory into NewStore Omnichannel Cloud. Use the
prescribed JSON schema for stock
. As soon as items are shipped, allocations for the items are removed from NewStore Omnichannel Cloud.
Inventory in NewStore Omnichannel Cloud and in your business are now in sync.
Related topics
Prescribed JSON schema for stock
Importing data
Receiving real-time data
Syncing inventory after a receiving transaction
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
catalog
developer
ERP integration
event stream
events
fulfillment
integration
inventory
newstore platform
platform
webhook
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use