Set up promotions
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Set up promotions
Updated on
Nov 20, 2024
Published on Oct 17, 2024
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore Omnichannel Cloud enables businesses to offer various promotions, such as automatic promotions, coupons, and discounts, to enhance customer engagement and drive sales. You can manage these promotions through NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
Types of promotions:
Automatic Promotions: Apply automatic promotions when all the requirements for a discount are fulfilled without any manual intervention.
Coupons: scan a coupon barcode or manually enter a coupon code to apply discounts.
Discounts: specify a discount percentage or amount and apply it to individual items or all items in the cart.
When multiple promotions apply to items in the cart, they are applied in the following order,
Automatic Promotions > Coupons > Discounts
.
Overview of the promotion process
Promotions and discounts on the NewStore platform provide the following options:
Automatic promotions
Apply promotions and discounts automatically without manual intervention during checkout. Automatic promotions support percentage and fixed amount discounts, Buy X Get Y promotions, fixed price promotions, bundles and free shipping.
Promotions can be tailored to specific products, categories, or the complete cart. For more information, see
Creating automatic promotions
.
Coupons
To apply coupons, you first need to create the coupon definition in NewStore OmniChannel Manager. Once the definition is in place, you can add eligible coupon codes to trigger the coupon driven discount.  For more information, see
Creating coupons
.
When there are multiple exclusive coupons, NewStore identifies the one that offers the maximum savings for the customer. For more information, see
Calculating best price for exclusive promotions
.
Discretionary discounts​
Discounts can be applied as a percentage or as a specific amount. You can pre-define reason codes and labels in NewStore OmniChannel Manager. The predefined discretionary discounts will show as a mandatory selection option in Associate App. The discretionary discounts can apply to specific items in the cart or to all items in the cart.
An example for usage of discretionary discount application would be the waiver for shipping costs for certain orders that exceed a specified amount. They also serve as the primary tool for monetary customer appeasement. For more information, see
Creating discounts
.
Promotions simulator
You can simulate how promotions and coupons or coupon codes will be applied to a cart in Associate App. The Promotions Simulator in Omnichannel Manager enables you to experiment with and validate promotions and coupons set up for your business. The Promotions Simulator aims  to reduce the errors and problems with promotions or discount coupons during checkout transactions when live. For more information, see
Promotions simulator
.
Third-party promotions engine
You can also use a third-party promotion engine, if the native promotion engine at NewStore does not cater to all your promotion and discount related requirements. In this case promotions are created and managed entirely in the third-party promotion engine. For more information, see
Integrating a third-party promotion engine
.
Note: You cannot use the native promotion engine at NewStore if you decide to use a third-party promotion engine to manage your discounts and promotions.
Further reading
Creating automatic promotions
Creating coupons
Simulating promotions in a cart
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
Associate App configuration
automatic promotions
discounts
discretionary discounts
omnichannel manager
price override
promotions
third-party promotion engine
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use