Managing users and roles
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Managing users and roles
Updated on
Jun 16, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
11 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
As an admin, you can manage users and roles to allow users to use specific features and apps.
Ensure that you create an account for:
Each store associate who handles orders and in-store purchases via Associate App.
Each store associate who fulfills orders and handles inventory via Associate App.
Each company employee who requires business reports, customer care, and administrative information from NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
The user accounts in your business are displayed on the
Settings
>
Users & Roles
page. To find a specific user account, you can search by first name, last name, and the associated email ID.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
To manage users and corresponding roles in bulk for your business, ask your SI partner or integrator to use the
User management API
.
To assign or manage roles, use the
Roles API
.
To manage or update identity configurations, use the
Identity providers API
or see the
integration guides
.
Managing roles
A role represents a set of permissions, which can be assigned to a user account to grant them these permissions. A typical example is the
Admin
role, granting all rights to the user of this role.
If a user has multiple roles assigned, the user gets the permissions of each assigned role. If no roles are assigned to a user, the user can still access the NewStore mobile apps but not NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Default roles and permissions
NewStore Omnichannel Manager provides you with the following roles. The descriptions provided in this table are the default access rights for each role. You can edit or delete all these roles, to update the access provided or associated permissions, except for the
Admin
role.
Default roles
Role
Description
Admin
Grants full rights. This role cannot be deleted or edited.
Customer Service Supervisor
Can view and edit orders with all order maintenance features. Can view discounts and coupons.
Can also update the shipping status of a fulfillment request, the shipment for which was processed outside of the NewStore platform.
Merchandiser
Can view orders and dashboards. Can manage discounts and coupons.
Fulfillment Manager
Can view orders, discounts, coupons, and inventory management. Can also manage orders via NewStore Omnichannel Manager, such as order exports, order exceptions, and shipping. Can enable or disable stores for order fulfillment and manager shipment limits for orders.
Can import and export safety stock. Can also update the shipping status of a fulfillment request, the shipment for which was processed outside of the NewStore platform.
Corporate Operations
Can view and export orders. Can view dashboards, discounts, coupons, cash management, and inventory management. Can manage all settings except for users and roles.
Store Manager
Can view orders, dashboards, discounts, coupons, cash management, inventory management, and assign associates to stores. Can also import and export safety stock.
Keyholder
Has no access to NewStore Omnichannel Manager but can perform cash management operations in NewStore Associate App.
Associate
Can log in and use NewStore Associate App. Assign this role to a store associate to enable default NewStore Associate App
permissions
.
User permissions
You can create or edit roles and use the following permissions:
Role
Description
View orders
Enables users to view the
Sales
tab, sales orders and access order details.
Edit shipping
Enables users to modify shipping during the grace period.
Swap product
Enables users to swap products during the grace period.
Cancel store orders
Enables users to cancel pending orders and orders that have been routed to a store but have not yet been shipped.
Cancel DC orders
Enables users to cancel orders that have been routed to a distribution center but have not yet been shipped. For more information, see
Modifying orders for customers
and
Allowing DC-fulfilled order cancelation
.
Issue refunds
Enables users to issue appeasement refunds.
Manage order exceptions
Enables users to handle exceptions for on hold orders.
Export orders
Enables users to export sales orders and save as a CSV file.
Update status for shipments processed externally
Enables users to update the shipping status of a fulfillment request, the shipment for which was processed outside of the NewStore platform.
View customers
Enables users to view a customer overview list, and customer details. When using this permission, retailers can have role-based access control over the customer pages in Omnichannel Manager. For more information, see see
Added permission to view customers
.
Edit customers
Enables users to modify customer information, enhancing data security. When using this permission, retailers can have role-based access control over the customer pages in Omnichannel Manager. For more information, see
Editing customer details
.
Merge customers
Enables users to merge 2 customer profiles into 1 single profile. When using this permission, retailers can have role-based access control over the customer pages in Omnichannel Manager. For more information, see
Merging customer profiles
.
View promotions
Enables users to access the
Promotions
tab to view discounts and coupons.
Manage discounts
Enables users to create discounts.
Manage coupons
Enables users to create coupons and coupon codes.
View cash management
Enables users to view cash management reporting.
View inventory management
Enables the
Inventory management
tab under
Store Operations
. The menu gives access to
Stock on Hand
,
Transactions
,
ASNs
,
Counts
,
Transfer Orders
and
Mispicks
pages. The user can view all the inventory-related data for all the stores. If the retailer does not manage inventory on NewStore, the
Stock on Hand
page is not visible.
Create Cycle Counts
Enables the
Create Cycle Count
tab on the
Counts
page. With this permission the user can create cycle counts for stores so the inventory can be audited and updated.
Cancel Cycle Counts
Shows the
Cancel Cycle Count
function on the
Counts
page. With this permission the user can cancel cycle counts that are in
Pending
or
In Progress
status, so the counts that are not relevant anymore can be removed from Associate App.
Force Close ASNs
Enables the
Force Close ASN
tab on the
ASN detail
page accessible from the ASNs page. With this permission the user can close ASNs that are in
Open
or
Partially Received
status, so the ASNs are removed from Associate App and the related events are emitted to the ERP, if configured.
View fiscal reports
Enables users to view fiscal reports and download an electronic log of transactions in the store.
View settings
Enables users to access the
Settings
module and external payment reports.
Manage users and roles
Enables users to create, modify, and delete users and roles (including assigning users to stores).
Manage identity providers
Enables access to the
Single Sign-On
tab in the
Users and Roles
menu, and allows users to configure an identity provider like Microsoft, Google, or Okta to provide access to NewStore applications.
Manage API clients
Enables access to the
API Clients
tab in the
Users and Roles
menu, and allows users to configure an API client and token to work with APIs on the NewStore platform.
Assign associates to stores
Enables users to assign associates to stores.
Modify reason codes
Enables users to view and manage reason codes for returns and order modifications.
View locations
Enables users to view stores and warehouses.
Manage locations
Enables users to create and edit warehouses.
Manage shipping
Enables users to view and manage shipping options, carrier services, and shipping zones.
Manage clienteling
Enables users to access the
Clienteling
tab in
Settings
. They can use the tab to view and manage Clienteling stores, and manage Clienteling quick replies including the opt-in message.
Manage shipment limits
Enables users to create and manage limits on the number of shipments allowed for an order in your business. This is required to ship large orders or when multiple locations fulfill an order. See
Shipping split orders
.
Note
This permission is assigned to the
Fulfillment Manager
role by default. However, you can choose to assign it to other user roles as well.
View routing configuration
Enables users to view:
Locations groups
,
Location fulfillment status
and
Store Capacity
settings.
Manage routing configuration
Enables users to manage:
Locations groups
(add/remove/prioritize Locations), fulfillment status (enable/disable) and
Store Capacity
settings (enable/disable & modify capacity value).
Manage Associate App
Enables Omnichannel Manager users to configure Associate App settings and customizations. See Managing Associate App customizations for more information.
Manage templates
Enables users to view and manage templates in Omnichannel Manager to generate PDF files and text snippets as invoices, return receipts, or as the subject and body of emails sent to customers.
Manage safety stock
Enables users to manage
Safety Stock
(import and export).
Manage fiscal stores
Enables the page to manage fiscal aspects of the stores operating in countries with fiscal compliance requirements.
View tools
Enables users to view developer tools in Omnichannel Manager in
Tools
, such as Event Stream event logs or other audit data.
View dashboards
Enables users to view analytical dashboards.
View Insights
Enables users to view Omnichannel Insights dashboards that are shared with them under
Insights > Reports
. Designed for data consumers, or those who will want to view dashboards that are created for them in Omnichannel Manager.
Create Insights
Enables users to create and share Omnichannel Insights dashboards under
Insights > Explore
, and modify the sales dashboards in Associate App under
Insights > Associate App Setup
. This permission is typically assigned to data or business analysts who want to use business intelligence tools to dig deeper into their business. This helps them create reports, and share those reports with the retail management.
Edit fulfillment availability
Enables users to enable or disable stores for order fulfillment. See Enabling or disabling a store for order fulfillment.
Create support cases
Enables users to create support requests using the form in Omnichannel Manager.
Permissions for NewStore Associate App
The following permissions are specific to Associate App.
Permission
Description (where in the app, and what is enabled)
Login to Associate App
Enables access to Associate App for the store associate.
Important
This is the default permission for NewStore Associate App. Ensure that a role is assigned to the store associate before enabling this permission.
Currently, associates assigned to a store can log into NewStore Associate App.
Perform cash management operations
Enables associates to perform cash management functions in the store. Specific capabilities tied to this permission can be viewed here.
Access cash management settings
Enables associates to configure cash management and cash drawer settings in the store.
Note
You can only enable this permission for the user if the
Perform cash management
operations permission is enabled.
Approve orders
Enables associates to approve certain orders in Associate App, based on approval rules configured for your business. This permission is assigned to the
Store Manager
role by default. However, you can choose to assign it to other user roles as well.
Allow switch to Test Mode
Enables associates to switch between staging and production environments in NewStore Associate App. Additionally, this feature must be enabled via the configuration API.
View Inventory
Enables associates to view
Inventory
as an option on the menu and have access to counts or adjusting inventory in Associate App.
Perform Counts
Enables the tab to view
Cycle Counts
as an option on the
Inventory
menu. Also enables access to managing cycle counts and resulting updates to the inventory.
Adjust Inventory
Enables the tab to view
Adjustments
as an option on the
Inventory
menu. Also enables access to create adjustments, selecting pre-configured reasons and updating the inventory.
Clienteling operations
Enables associates to access clienteling features in NewStore Associate App, such as chat and inbox.
Creating a user account
Permission required
This action can be performed by users with the Manage users and roles permission.
Log in with a user account that has the
Admin
role or a role that has the
Manage Users and Roles
permission assigned to it. Only these roles can create accounts.
Go to
Settings
>
Users & Roles
.
In the
Users
section, click
Add User
.
Enter the first name, last name, email address, and telephone number.
In the
Access
section, select a user type:
Corporate directory
: The user can log in with their own company email and password. The user should not expect an account activation email from NewStore.
Note
This feature must be enabled before you can use it. See
Configuring identity and access management
.
NewStore directory
: The user account is created in NewStore and the user will receive an account activation email from NewStore with instructions to create their password.
Note
The user type changes how the users log in to the apps. See
logging-in
.
Choose the roles to assign to the user. View
Default roles and permissions
for more information. When using several roles, the user gets all the permissions of the selected roles.
Important
A user account without a role can log into the NewStore mobile apps but cannot log into NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
In the
Store
field, assign the user to a store. This is required to enable the user to use Associate App.
note
Once you assign a store to a user, this store cannot be removed but only replaced by another store.
Click
Save
.
The user is created immediately.
Creating filters for a user role
Permission required
This action can be performed by users with the Manage users and roles permission.
For each user role that you create in NewStore Omnichannel Manager, you can create and apply filters to curate the list of orders that will be visible to the users on the
Sales
>
Orders
page.
You can only assign filters to
pre-existing
user roles. The
Table filters
area does not appear when creating a new user role.
Important
If a user has been assigned multiple roles with different filters, only the filters assigned to the first role in the platform is taken into account. The other filters are ignored, even if the remaining roles have these filters assigned to them.
To create role based filters:
Log in with a user account that has the
Admin
role or a role that has the
Manage Users and Roles
permission assigned to it. Only these roles can create accounts and assign role filters.
Go to
Settings
>
Users & Roles
.
In the
Roles
section, click the specific role that you want to assign filters to.
In the
Table filters
area, create the filters and click
Save filters
.
For example, you can specify that users in your business operating from New York can only see in-store orders, which have been fulfilled by locations in the US.
The filters will then look like this:
```none
{
 channel:
 [
  "in-store"
  ]
 products.fulfillmentLocation:
  [
  "US*"
  ]
 }
```
Click
Save
.
Deactivating and deleting user accounts
Permission required
This action can be performed by users with the Manage users and roles permission.
Deactivated users cannot access any NewStore applications. If the user account that you are deactivating has fulfillment requests that have not been completed, contact the
support team
.
To deactivate a user account:
Click
Settings
>
Users & Roles
.
Click the user name that you want to deactivate.
Click
Disable account
and confirm. The account is disabled and cannot be used to log in the apps.
Note
App users are not logged out immediately.
Once an account is deactivated, you can:
Reactivate the user account by clicking
Enable account
.
Delete the user account by clicking
Delete permanently
Note
Deleting a user does not delete the history related to this user account, such as the orders with which the user was involved.
Related topics
Managing locations in NewStore
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
authentication
customer
fulfillment
identity management
omnichannel manager
sso
store associate
store manager
user account
user permissions
user roles
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use