Introduction to the platform onboarding guide
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Introduction to the platform onboarding guide
Updated on
May 12, 2025
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
The NewStore Partner Onboarding program is a set of step-by-step tutorials on how to set up the NewStore platform. The modules provide a guideline through basic platform functionality and help you navigate the platform documentation. Each module describes a scenario given to you by a fictitious retail executive and invites you to play with the platform, its config and APIs, and experiment with what is possible.
Audience
The NewStore Partner Onboarding program is targeted to
New System Integrator Partners that are in the process of onboarding into the NewStore Partner program
Developers onboarding as new Employees into those Partners
Retailer internal developer teams
Content
The modules covered in this area are broken up by OMNI functionality to match typical deployment strategies. These include.
Module 1 - Foundational Setup
- This tutorial covers the basics to perform a simple and carry transaction.
Module 2: Returns & exchanges
- Covers the setup to enable performing returns and exchanges
Module 3: Store inventory management (Part 1)
- Introduction to how to set NewStore to manage store on hand inventory
Module 4: Web order injection using a sample payment gateway
- First steps of setting up NewStore as the OMS, enabling the injection of external orders
Module 5: Buy Online Pickup In-Store (BOPIS)
- Setup of the BOPIS capability in NewStore
Module 6: Store fulfillment
- How to use stores as fulfillment locations
Module 7: Endless Aisle & Mixed cart
- Leverage the whole shippable inventory in a region for in store sales
Module 8: Promotions and Discount
- This tutorial covers the different promotions and discounts supported in NewStore
Module 9: Inventory Management (Part 2)
- Dive deeper into detailed inventory management transactions in-store.
Module 10: AA customization
- This tutorial covers the different customization supported in the Associate App customization framework
Preparation
Before you start on these modules, please make sure you have the following resources/tools in place.
A freshly created sandbox environment of the NewStore Platform. Please request a blank system vis your point of contact in NewStore.
An Apple Business Manager Account (ABM), see the separate document “Application Deployments using ABM”
Postman or a similar tool to perform API calls.
A data storage system that allows you to upload files that can be made available publicly or via a signed URL (e.g. AWS S3)
A system enabling you to host and run simple integration applications that respond to a NewStore webhook callback in a defined manner. (e.g. AWS Lambda + API Gateway)
As you make different API calls, you will need to generate an API Credentials token. Use this
documentation
to create a new credential. Make sure you select the right scope/privilege while creating the API credentials, as you will not be able to modify it later.
Important
As you follow the documentation you will see URLs specified as
https://{{tenant}}.newstore.net
. This is only an example. Your URL will replace
{{tenant}}
with the name of your sandbox - such as -
https://partnerenablement-ex.p.newstore.net/
.
Feedback
We’d like to encourage you to provide feedback how we can further improve the onboarding modules.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use