Setting up a loyalty rewards system with NewStore
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Setting up a loyalty rewards system with NewStore
Updated on
Nov 13, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
7 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Important
Integrate a third-party provider to set up a loyalty rewards or membership program for your customers.
If your business already offers a loyalty membership program for your customers, you can integrate it with NewStore to allow associates to work with it using Associate App.
Use cases
Loyalty integration allows you to run a loyalty program in your stores where associates will be able to:
Onboard your customers to your loyalty program
Look up your loyalty customers
Earn loyalty points for purchase transactions
Redeem loyalty rewards in the form of discounts
Reconcile loyalty points and rewards in cases of returns or exchanges
Pre-requisites
To set up a loyalty rewards system with NewStore, the following pre-requisites apply:
You have a third-party loyalty service provider set up to integrate with NewStore.
Associate App is enabled to work with and offer loyalty rewards to your customers. See the
configuration guide.
Loyalty provider offers a synchronous API to enable the use cases described below.
Additionally, for the loyalty rewards integration approach to fetch loyalty data from a third party provider, ensure that you are aware that:
The loyalty program is the source of truth for all loyalty related data.
All business logic around loyalty status level, points, and rewards are managed by the loyalty program and your business.
The loyalty program issues a unique loyalty ID for each customer onboarded onto the loyalty program. This ID is then used within the platform to identify the customer for loyalty rewards purposes.
Loyalty rewards cannot be redeemed in NewStore as a payment option.
Loyalty information for orders or customers cannot be displayed on receipts.
Setting up a loyalty program integration with NewStore
Currently, NewStore recommends that the general loyalty program integration framework for businesses is driven by store associates via Associate App. The associate can use Associate App to find the customer they want to onboard to the loyalty program. The actual loyalty enrollment, viewing the status of the customer, and available points and balances, as well as loyalty redemption, are all performed by the third-party loyalty provider managed by your business.
However, some of these actions need to be performed in the WebView container within Associate App, such as viewing the status or reward points for the customer. Here, Associate App acts as the UI interface for the third-party loyalty provider you have integrated with.
The current high-level architectural overview for setting up a loyalty program with NewStore looks like this:
The workflow for associates to leverage a sample loyalty rewards system integration with NewStore has been described here:
When a store associate looks up a loyalty customer (already enrolled in the loyalty program and a loyalty ID has been assigned to the customer profile) in Associate App, loyalty data is retrieved via an external deeplink to the Loyalty WebView container. The deeplink leads to the WebView container that has the external app with the loyalty system data.
Note
The loyalty ID is an
extended attribute
for the customer profile. For more information on adding extended attributes, see
Configuring extended attributes in NewStore Associate App
.
The WebView container displays the following data to the associate, retrieving it from the service layer or loyalty adapter:
Loyalty details in real time from the third-party loyalty rewards system
Selection of loyalty rewards available from the third-party rewards system
Redemption of available points to convert to loyalty rewards
To understand how to set up a WebView customization for a loyalty program for your business, see
this guide.
Important
NewStore does not set up the WebView application. This must be set up by your business.
The service layer or loyalty adapter creates a loyalty coupon via an
API call
in the NewStore platform, and retrieves the coupon code for the loyalty coupon.
The coupon code is passed via the deeplink to Associate App, which the associate can use to apply to the order.
After the order is placed in the app, the platform emits an
order.opened
event. This event confirms that an order has been placed in the platform for the loyalty customer, as it contains the
reward ID
as an extended attribute.
The WebView container also passes the coupons via a deeplink to Associate App, which then applies the coupon to calculate the final discounted price for the order.
Note
The WebView container with the coupons displayed is opened outside of Associate App, in the cart menu which displays a dedicated reward option for loyalty customers.
To set up the loyalty program to work with Associate App, see
this guide.
Once the order is placed, the service layer or loyalty adapter consumes this
order.opened
event, it deactivates the loyalty reward that has been redeemed in the loyalty rewards system.
Example workflows for a sample loyalty rewards system integration with NewStore
The workflow for onboarding customers to a loyalty program, redeeming loyalty rewards, and reconciling all of the loyalty reward related transactions with the third-party system can vary based on the kind of loyalty rewards system integration that you have set up with NewStore.
To help you set up expectations, see the following example workflows for interacting with the loyalty rewards system.
Onboarding customers to the loyalty program
When you set up a loyalty rewards system integration with NewStore, you can use Associate App to onboard customers to the loyalty program. However, the specific onboarding process for a customer happens in the third-party loyalty system.
Set up the WebView container as outlined in
Setting up a loyalty program integration with NewStore
.
Ensure that the WebView container in the app allows you to onboard the customer to the loyalty program.
Ideally, after onboarding, a loyalty ID must be added to the customer profile in NewStore.
Redeeming loyalty rewards via Associate App
An example workflow for adding applicable loyalty reward coupons for the customer is described here:
Ensure that you have assigned the customer to the cart.
Tap
More
and select
Redeem Loyalty Rewards
.
Depending on how you have set up your loyalty rewards system, select the type of loyalty rewards to redeem them for the order. This can include:
Selecting from available rewards, or
Selecting and purchasing a reward from a set of predefined rewards using loyalty points, or
Redeeming points or rewards dynamically that are customized for the cart and the data is sent to NewStore via the deeplink.
Note
Based on how rewards are configured for your business, manual discounts or automatic promotions already applied to the order may also appear in this list as pre-selected options.
Tap
Apply Loyalty Reward Coupon(s)
.
You are directed back into the Associate app cart screen, where you can verify that the selected loyalty rewards have reduced the cart total.
For more information, see
Enabling Associate App to offer loyalty rewards
.
Collecting loyalty points for purchases
You may want customers to collect loyalty rewards or points when they buy items online or from a store in your business.
To do this, ensure that the third-party provider integration listens to the
order.completed
event emitted by the NewStore
Event Stream
. This event is emitted for every purchase transaction completed within the NewStore platform.
Once this event is emitted, the third-party integration can listen to this event and loyalty points or rewards applicable to be collected for the completed order can be added to the customer's loyalty account.
To see how events are emitted and consumed by an integration later, see the
Event Stream entity model.
Note
The expiration date for loyalty rewards or loyalty points needs to be set up in third-party provider.
Reconciling loyalty points and rewards for returns or exchanges
To reconcile and manage loyalty points and rewards for items that are returned or exchanged by the customer, ensure that the third-party provider integration listens to the
return.processed
event emitted by the NewStore
Event Stream
.
Once this event is emitted, the third-party integration can listen to this event and loyalty points or rewards redeemed for the returned order are restored in the customer’s loyalty account.
To see how events are emitted and consumed by an integration later, see the
Event Stream entity model.
Note
The expiration date for loyalty rewards or loyalty points needs to be set up in third-party provider.
Troubleshooting
When integrating a third-party loyalty provider with NewStore, you may encounter errors in different parts of the loyalty flow. These areas include errors within the NewStore platform, within the integration itself, or with the third party loyalty engine.
NewStore can only act on the errors within the NewStore platform. This relates to loyalty coupons, and how these coupons are created and applied to a cart within Newstore.
Errors related to the pre-conditions that control if a coupon is actually created are related to the loyalty integration and the third-party loyalty engine. NewStore
does not
handle loyalty points or rewards. In such cases, we recommend that you reach out to your implementation partner, integrator, or the loyalty rewards provider to resolve these errors.
Related topics
About running loyalty programs with NewStore
Configuring loyalty rewards on Associate App
Using NewStore Associate App
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
Associate App
Associate App configuration
configuration
customer
external app
integration
loyalty rewards
omnichannel manager
platform
webview
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use