Set up taxes
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Set up taxes
Updated on
Jan 10, 2025
Published on Oct 17, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
To ensure accurate tax calculation and compliance with tax laws, setting up taxes accurately is one of the crucial steps for businesses. NewStore Omnichannel Cloud facilitates automatic tax calculation for each order, leveraging third-party providers, such as Avalara AvaTax and Vertex, or custom tax provider that allows you to integrate your own tax provider or another third-party provider. Additionally, NewStore allows you to configure a default fixed tax rate to process transactions when network connectivity is unavailable.
Calculating taxes
Retailers can set up and calculate tax using either of the following methods:
Using an integrated tax calculator
NewStore has productised integrations with
Avalara AvaTax
and
Vertex
, to calculate taxes and fees. This includes fees like the Colorado Retail Delivery Fee and Minnesota Road Improvement and Food Delivery Fee, charged to your customer for each order. These fees are based on the tax laws and regulations applicable to the order. For a detailed step-by-step guide on calculating taxes using an integrated tax calculator, see this
tutorial
.
Creating a custom tax provider
You can configure the NewStore platform to use your own custom tax provider that uses the
NewStore tax provider webhook schema
for calculating taxes and fees. Our custom tax provider integration solution empowers the retailer to calculate taxes and seamlessly communicate the information back to the NewStore platform during the checkout process.
Custom tax provider integration solution be used with the following scenarios:
Custom tax provider that calculates taxes internally.
Custom tax provider that acts as an adapter for a third-party tax provider.
For a detailed step-by-step guide on setting up a custom tax provider, see this
tutorial
.
Using a fixed tax rate as a fallback
NewStore Omnichannel Cloud allows you to configure a default fixed tax rate to ensure that a sale is completed and taxes are calculated even when Associate App is offline, or the third-party tax provider is not reachable. For a detailed step-by-step guide on calculating taxes using fixed tax rate, see this
tutorial
.
Important
In fiscal countries, taxes are re-calculated when the offline order is uploaded to the NewStore platform.
Using a fixed rate per country
Retailers who do not use a tax calculation provider, NewStore Omnichannel Cloud allows you to define a fixed tax rate for each country that you do business in. This strategy cannot be used in combination with or as a fallback to any other tax strategy defined in NewStore. For a detailed step-by-step guide on calculating taxes using a fixed tax rate per country, see this
tutorial
.
Important
The fixed rate per country is a basic tax calculation strategy that does not consider tax classes, the source of the sale, and the shipping origin and destination.
To calculate taxes with all these considerations, we recommend that you integrate a third party provider like
Avalara
or
Vertex
.
About tax committing
In addition to calculating taxes at the time an order is placed in Associate App, NewStore offers the option to send the tax details of the completed orders to Avalara. This allows retailers to use Avalara for reporting and filing.
When tax committing is enabled, NewStore sends the tax information to Avalara if the taxes were calculated within the NewStore platform. The tax information sent includes tax type, rate, and amount on completed orders.
Note
When using an alternative tax provider, NewStore APIs and events can be used to commit taxes. For more information on configuration settings for this feature, see
Enabling tax committing for Avalara integration
.
Use cases for tax committing
Tax committing using the productized Avalara integration is limited to in-store orders. The following table lists the use cases that are supported, and the limitations.
Use case
Status
Cash & carry
✅
Tax information is sent immediately upon capturing the order
Endless aisle
✅
Tax information is sent upon fulfillment of the entire order
Mixed cart
✅
Tax information is sent upon fulfillment of the entire order
Injected orders
❌
Not currently supported
Returns
Verified returns
❌
Not currently supported
Blind returns
✅
Tax information is sent immediately upon completion of the return
Verified exchanges
🟡
Tax information is sent only for the purchased items included in the exchange
Blind exchanges
✅ Tax information is sent for both the returned and purchased items included in the exchange
Offline orders
In fiscal countries
✅ Tax information is sent once the offline order is uploaded to the platform
In non-fiscal countries
❌
Not currently supported
For unsupported use cases, NewStore APIs and events can be used to commit taxes through an external integration.
Important
NewStore does not recalculate taxes for instances where the tax liability may have changed, such as:
appeasement refunds
cancellations
changes in shipping information
item swaps
rerouted fulfillment
Further reading
Configuring taxes and tax providers
Set up payments
Retrieving tax information
Setting up a custom tax provider
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Avalara
tax provider
tax rate
taxes
Vertex
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use