Set up your mobile POS
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Set up your mobile POS
Updated on
Dec 24, 2024
Published on Oct 17, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Setting up mobile Point of Sale (mPOS) with the NewStore Associate App enables associates' mobile devices to function as flexible POS systems. Store associates can handle transactions and manage store activities from anywhere in the store using Associate App. It helps improve the customer experience by eliminating fixed checkout stations and reduces long queues.The setup involves configuring hardware, enabling business-relevant features, and integrating with backend systems such as inventory, payments, and order management for seamless operations.
With NewStore Associate App, store associates can process transactions on mobile devices, including scanning items, applying discounts, completing payments, and issuing receipts. The app also supports advanced features such as customer profile lookups, loyalty program integration, and also supports personalized shopping experience for customers.
Overview of the setup process
Setting up mPOS for your business involves setting up the following:
Stores and warehouses
The first step in using NewStore as your omnichannel services and mPOS platform is to set up stores and warehouses in the platform. This allows you to configure physical locations to manage inventory, and optimize your order fulfillment processes. For more information, see
Setting up a store
.
Payments
NewStore offers a flexible, secure payment solution that integrates seamlessly into your retail ecosystem. NewStore supports multiple payment methods through integration with various payment service providers (PSPs). In-store associates can use
NewStore Checkout
for phone payments and NewStore SDK for processing with PSPs like Adyen. External payment options not integrated with these PSPs are also supported but require separate reconciliation. For more information, see
Setting up payments
.
Taxes
To ensure accurate tax calculation and compliance with tax laws, accurately setting up taxes is one of the crucial steps for businesses. NewStore Omnichannel Cloud facilitates automatic tax calculation for each order, leveraging third-party providers such as Avalara AvaTax and Vertex, or a custom tax provider that allows you to integrate your own tax provider or another third-party provider. Additionally, NewStore allows you to configure a default fixed tax rate to process transactions when network connectivity is unavailable. For more information, see
Setting up taxes
.
Promotions
NewStore Omnichannel Cloud offers a comprehensive promotions feature that allows retailers to create, manage, and apply various promotional campaigns seamlessly. Retailers can design custom discounts, special offers, and loyalty programs to enhance customer engagement and drive sales.
Retailers can also use a third-party promotion engine such as
Talon.One
, if the native promotion engine at NewStore does not cater to all your promotion and discount related requirements. For more information, see
Setting up promotions
.
Inventory management
NewStore Omnichannel Cloud allows you to manage inventory operations and stock locations using Associate App. You can enable a store in your business to use NewStore as inventory master, instead of an ERP, to manage inventory-related operations and data.
If you use NewStore as inventory master for a store, these inventory operations rely on stock locations that help you manage salable and unsalable stock. For more information, see
Setting up inventory management.
Reporting
The reporting feature in NewStore's platform is designed to enhance visibility and efficiency across various aspects of retail operations. You can see real-time updates about your inventory data across all locations, facilitate efficient transfer of inventory between locations, get advanced reports with our omnichannel manager, and more. For more information, see
Managing omnichannel insights
.
Administrate the app
Manage users and assign role-based access and permissions to associates for appropriate access within the app. Set up hardware devices like Bluetooth scanners and printers for seamless transactions, accurate scanning, and efficient receipt printing. Configure the app to meet your business requirements and distribute it to store associates using the Access and Brand Management (ABM) setup for streamlined deployment across your organization. For more information, see
Distributing Associate App
.
Further reading
Using NewStore Associate App
Customizing NewStore Associate App
Quick start tutorials
A payment method available in NewStore Associate App, which allows customers to use their phone to pay using an electronic wallet such as Apple Pay, Google Pay or PayPal. See
Choosing a payment option
and
Setting up NewStore Checkout with Adyen Pay By Link
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
analytics
Associate App
customer
customize associate app
inventory
mobile pos
newstore platform
payment
promotions
reporting
reports
store
taxes
warehouse
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use