SAP Emarsys SDK for personal and automated omnichannel marketing
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
SAP Emarsys SDK for personal and automated omnichannel marketing
Updated on
Jun 19, 2025
Published on Mar 6, 2025
1 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
SAP Emarsys
is a third-party software solution for personalized omnichannel engagement. By integrating the SAP Emarsys SDK into the Shopping App, NewStore Shopping App retailers can send personalized push notifications, such as cart abandonment reminders—to boost customer lifetime value. Additionally, SAP Emarsys enhances automation and reporting capabilities, empowering brands to streamline and elevate their marketing efforts.
SAP Emarsys functionalities
Automation capabilities in SAP Emarsys allow you to leverage new data from your Shopping App and engage more effectively and consistently with your users across your channels. For example, trigger a specific push notification when a user performs a defined action in the Shopping App.
Currently, the integration supports the following functionalities from SAP Emarsys:
Push notifications
- Setup, preview, test, and send targeted messages to users directly on the lock screen of their device
Deeplink to different app views
- Direct users from a push notification to a specific screen within the app for a seamless experience
Predictive Events
– Leverage AI-driven insights and build segments based on user behavior to anticipate user actions and trigger relevant engagement (it works for authenticated users only)
Custom Events
– Track and respond to specific in-app user behaviors tailored to your business needs (it works for both authenticated and guest users)
End-to-End Reporting
– Gain comprehensive analytics on user interactions and campaign performance
Enabling SAP Emarsys
Retailers need an SAP Emarsys contract that includes
Mobile Engage
, the mobile apps module. SAP is not required as an e-commerce engine.
Note
Contact your Omnichannel Success Manager to set up and use SAP Emarsys for your Shopping App.
After enabling Mobile Engage in your environment, complete the following five steps to set up the NewStore Shopping App:
Provide the MerchantID after setting up Mobile Engage. Confirm whether a single account will be used for all countries/storefronts.
List the countries where you plan to utilize SAP Emarsys, and if they need to be operated separately (for example, due to catalog differences).
Specify if SAP Emarsys will be used in countries that require
user tracking consent
.
Invite NewStore to your Emarsys account (sandbox, staging, and production) and give permissions for
Mobile Engage
and
Push Notifications
. Specific email addresses to add will be shared during the process.
Identify and share the Customer ID and Contact Field ID that NewStore should set for the
SetContact
property in SAP Emarsys.
Once the setup is complete, test the integration before moving to production.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use