Distribution center
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Distribution center
Updated on
May 13, 2025
Published on Mar 11, 2025
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Let's get started with adding a new DC to your system! In this section, we'll take you through a step-by-step process to:
Step 1: Create a new DC and import inventory
Step 2: Set up the DC address
Step 3: Configure the webhook to export fulfillment orders to the DC
By the end of this section, you'll have successfully added a new DC and completed all necessary setup tasks to integrate it into your system. Let's dive in!
Step 1: Create a new DC and import inventory
In the NewStore platform, inventory data and transactions are managed through a logical entity called a
Fulfillment location
. This
Location
is created during the initial inventory load process. For distribution centers (DCs), the fulfillment_node_id
Attribute
in the inventory import file will be populated with the DC's location ID, while the Store ID field will be left blank. The DC location ID will be prominently displayed, serving as a unique identifier for the fulfillment location.
Note
For a step-by-step guide on importing inventory, please refer to our comprehensive tutorial available at
Importing Stock Information
.
Refer to
Loading master data
to get more details on the import process.
Once a fulfillment location is created, it cannot be deleted or remapped. Ensure accurate data during import to avoid issues.
While doing the inventory import to create the DC, the store_id needs to be left empty in the store_mapping. for example snippet of availabilities import payload is given below.
....................
       ....................
        "store_mapping": [
            {
                "fulfillment_node_id": "US_DC",
                "store_id": ""
            }
        ]
       ....................
       ....................
Step 2: Set up the DC address
After successfully loading your inventory, the fulfillment_node_id for the
Distribution center
(DC) will be defined. To utilize the DC as a location, additional information is required, including:
Addressee's information
Physical address
Phone number
Note
To configure the addressee's information, physical address, and phone number for the Distribution Center (DC), utilize the following API endpoint:
Location API
This API allows you to update the necessary information for the DC, ensuring accurate order fulfillment and shipping operations. In case you need to access the dummy
Shipment
adapter code base which was built by the NewStore Expert Services team, please reach out to the NewStore Expert Services point of contact.
Step 3: Configure the webhook to export fulfillment orders to the DC
Once the DC fulfillment_node_id has been defined and the address has been added, the next step is to configure the integration endpoint to transmit DC fulfillment orders to the
Warehouse management system
(WMS). Fortunately, the NewStore platform offers a convenient webhook solution that seamlessly exposes critical order information, including:
Items
Customer details (including
Shipping address
)
Carrier service levels
Additional order attributes
By leveraging this webhook, we can ensure a streamlined and efficient integration process, enabling the WMS to receive and process DC fulfillment orders with ease.
Note
To configure the webhook  use
DC Fulfillment Node Config API
. This API will take the integration endpoint and the API key.
The webhook schema can be found here -
Fulfillment Provider Webhooks
It is mandatory to have an integration configured for DC fulfillment webhook, which responds with HTTP 200 status code.
A location that has ATP inventory for a product, and can fulfill an order. This can be a store or a warehouse or
Distribution center
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
A place from where the item can be fulfilled by the retailer or collected by the customer. Typically a
Distribution center
or a
Retail store
. See
Managing locations in NewStore
.
Characteristics of a retailer's stores or products which can vary. Retailers typically attribute their master data (stores and products) to enable rich analysis of their sales (for example, by product category, store demographics, etc.).
(Also DC, Warehouse)
A location that stocks products to be redistributed to other locations in your business or directly to customers. A distribution center is a principal part of the order fulfillment process.
(Also Delivery)
The delivery/shipment of goods sent to a customer.
(Also WMS)
A critical system used to manage the day-to-day operations within a warehouse. It tracks the movement of goods into, within and out of the warehouse, covering warehouse receipts of goods, inventory storage and management within the warehouse and shipment of goods from the warehouse (to customers, stores or other warehouses). In many cases, it manages an enterprises network of warehouses.
The address where goods are sent to. A shipping address is composed of a postal address and a phone number.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use