Fiscal regulations in Germany
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in Germany
Updated on
Jan 9, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
According to the German Cash Register Security Regulation (KassenSichV), a certified TSE (
Technische Sicherheitseinrichtung
, or a Technical Safety System) must be used for all cash register systems operating in Germany.
Retailers can operate on the NewStore platform in Germany in compliance with KassenSichV, via integrations with:
fiskaltrust Germany
(a middleware partner), and
fiskaly
(a cloud TSE provider)
fiskaly Cloud TSE is used for signing transactions that are processed through fiskaltrust Germany.
NewStore platform does not have a direct integration with fiskaly.
Fiscal activations
In stores operating in Germany, a store must be fiscally activated before orders can be created via NewStore Associate app.
Fiscal cashbox activation
The fiscal cashbox activation process in Germany includes the following steps:
Fiscal cashbox activation in the fiskaltrust Portal
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Fiscal cashbox activation in the fiskaltrust Portal
For stores in production environment, cashbox activation can be performed through
fiskaltrust Portal
For stores in non-production environment, cashbox activation can be performed through
fiskaltrust Sandbox Portal
Note
If you have a fiskaltrust PosDealer account, you can perform fiscal activation through the
Rollout Management
by using your PosDealer account.
If you don't have a fiskaltrust PosDealer account, contact the
support team
to walk you through the fiscal activation process.
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Important
A store must be already created within the NewStore platform before it can be fiscally activated. For more details, see Creating a store.
To fiscally activate a store, a fiscal cashbox can be activated within the NewStore platform via Omnichannel Manager. For more details, see
Activating fiscal cashboxes
.
Following information is required to fiscally activate a store in Germany:
Fiskaltrust cashbox information
Fiskaltrust Cashbox ID - The cashbox ID of the Fiskaltrust cashbox.
Fiskaltrust Access Token - The access token of the Fiskaltrust cashbox.
After the fiscal activation, an automated notification will be sent to the tax authorities by fiskaltrust.
Important
Tax authority activation notification is only sent when the fiskaltrust Carefree package is used.
For more information, see
fiskaltrust documentation
.
Fiscal cashbox deactivation
Important
Fiscal cashbox deactivation step is only required for cashboxes of the production tenants. For non-production tenants, the fiscal cashbox deactivation step can be skipped.
When a store is no longer operational within the NewStore platform:
The fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform must be deactivated.
The fiscal cashbox within the
fiskaltrust portal
must be deactivated and a
closing receipt
must be generated.
The closing receipt is automatically generated by the NewStore platform upon fiscal cashbox deactivation.
After the cashbox deactivation:
An automated notification will be sent to tax authorities by fiskaltrust.
The TSE will be decommissioned.
To request the deactivation of a fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform, contact the
support team
.
Important
Tax authority deactivation notification is only sent when the fiskaltrust Carefree package is used.
For more information, see
fiskaltrust documentation
.
Receipts for stores
Based on fiscal regulations that apply to stores operating in Germany, these additional features must be included in the receipts:
All receipts must have a fiscal signature, which displays the QR code and other plain text signature fields. To modify the fiscal signature template for Germany, see
Customizing a template
.
TSE data that is stored in the QR code may eliminate the need of printing certain signature fields as plain text. For more details and to ensure compliance, refer to the latest version of the Cash Security Ordinance (KassenSichV).
The organization's/store's name and address must be displayed in the header of the receipt.
All receipts must have item names and quantities, discount amounts for each item, total item prices, a breakdown of taxes, amount per payment method, date/time of the transaction in German timezone.
Cross-border sale or return, which has non-local taxes, should have a foreign sales indicator.
To modify the fiscal signature template for Germany, See
Customizing a template
.
Important
NewStore platform provides fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Fiscal reports
For stores operating in Germany, required fiscal reports in the given formats are provided by Fiskaltrust and can be accessed in the
fiskaltrust Portal
:
DSFinV-K
DFKA Taxonomie
Fiscal audits
Fiscal audits are not pre-announced and can be conducted by the tax authorities at any given time at the store.
During an audit, auditors may check:
Documents to prove the certification of the TSE. For more information, see the
documents required for a POS audit
.
DSFinV-K export that contains the POS system data.
TAR files that contain the logs generated by the TSE.
Note
You can access TAR files and the DSFinV-K export via the
fiskaltrust portal (Germany)
. For more information, see the
fiskaltrust documentation
.
For more information about the fiscal reports in Germany, see
Fiscal reports
.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
documents
fiscal cashbox
fiscal regulations
fiscal reports
fiscalization
germany
platform
receipts
taxes
template
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use