Onboarding prerequisites
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Onboarding prerequisites
Updated on
Apr 3, 2025
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Accessing platform logs
To access NewStore platform logs for specific tenants:
Request access to platform logs by contacting your NewStore representative and provide the following information:
Email addresses of the team members who need access
Tenant Name for which log access is required
Logs are accessible via Open search. Once you have access, log in to the
OpenSearch portal
. Make sure you have selected the “Index pattern” as logstash-*
You can enhance your log search by adding filters and selecting relevant columns to display, in addition to using free-form text search.
Important
If you cannot see the logs, make sure you have selected the right tenant. From the top-right corner, click and select
Switch Tenants
and then select
Choose from custom > public
.
More information
To efficiently search for relevant logs, follow these steps:
Use basic search, tenant name, timestamp, and other filters to identify the log file associated with the error or transaction.
Customize the log display by adding essential fields such as:
level
message
request_id
user_id
order_id
tenant
container_name
Once you've found a related log, apply the request_id filter to quickly locate all logs related to that specific request.
Another option to find relevant logs is to use the 'View surrounding documents' feature, which appears when you expand the logs. This allows you to easily view the logs immediately preceding and following the one you're interested in, providing additional context and helping you pinpoint the issue.
Deploying applications using an ABM or MDM
Mobile device management (MDM) is the collective administration of mobile devices within an organization. MDM is typically a deployment of a combination of on-device applications, configuration management, corporate security policies for the purposes of enhancing and simplifying the IT management and end user devices.
From a NewStore perceptive the functional requirement for having an MDM in place is the distribution of all associate and fulfillment apps to all stores. A recent change by Apple now means all NewStore apps must be distributed via the Apple Business Manager. The responsibility of setting up a MDM will be down to the retailer; however; this section attempts to provide some contextual guidance on the process.
Apple Business Manager (ABM) is a web-based portal for IT administrators to deploy iPhone, iPad all from one place. Working seamlessly with your mobile device management (MDM) solution, Apple Business Manager makes it easy to automate device deployment, purchase apps and distribute content, and create Managed Apple IDs for employees.
Enrolling an Apple Business Manager
Unless already done so, the enrollment in an Apple Business Manager Account is fairly straightforward. The registration will require a name, phone number, and a valid DUNS number for your company.
Note
Apple will verify the information with D&B Database. Therefore the enroller should be certain the information D&B have on file is up to date.
The enroller should have the authority to bind their organization and apple together, as they will be accepting the terms and conditions on behalf of their company. The enroller should make themselves available to answer any questions Apple may have during the enrollment process. A timely response is important during this period.
The email address used to enroll should also be associated with the company. A commercially available email (like gmail and yahoo) won’t be allowed. This email account will also become the initial administrator for the ABM.
After Apple approves the enrollment, the enroller will receive an email requesting they confirm the initial administrator or delegate the administration. On confirmation the administrator will be asked to create the initial administrator Managed Apple ID and agree to the terms and conditions. Once the Apple ID is created, please open a support ticket via NOM
In the ticket, request to have your Apple Business Manager organization name and the Organization ID added to AssociateOne App. NewStore support team will request the connection and close the ticket once the request has been completed.
Note
Your NewStore Apps will Appear in the Custom Apps tab, and not in the Apps and Books tab.
Distributing NewStore apps
There are two methods of distributing apps to the iPhone, using an MDM or via redemption codes. If the users who are going to use an app are having personal devices, then It is recommended to use the redemption code approach. Note that redemption codes are only valid in the same country as the ABM account is registered and must use an MDM to deploy the applications onto their devices. Some MDM applications will allow a small number of devices to be registered before fees are applied.
NewStore also has example documentation on how the ABM can be associated with the MDM. The example uses a simple MDM, but provides enough information on the process.
Creating redemption codes
The purchase of redemption codes is free of charge.
Sign in to your Apple Business Manager.
Navigate to Custom Apps.
Select the App for which you want to purchase redemption codes.
Select Redemption Codes from the License Type dropdown menu.
Provide the number of redemption codes you want to buy.
Click Get to purchase the codes.
Installing the application via redemption code on the iPhone
Open the App Store
Tap on your profile (upper right corner)
Tap on Redeem Gift Card or Code
Tap to enter the code
If the entered code was fine, the App store will automatically start to download and install the App.
Configuring apps
When deploying the Apps via Redemption codes, you will need to follow the process to manually configure the Apps with your tenant environment.
Use a free website that can generate a QR code like
https://www.qr-code-generator.com/free-generator
.
In the site enter com.newstore.associate-one://bootstrap?tenant=<tenant>.
Replace <tenant> with tenant name. This can be found as part of the NOM URL, by taking the portion between manage. and “.
newstore.net
”. For example, if the NOM Url is
https://manager.ps-sandbox.p.newstore.net/login
the tenant and stage will be ps-sandbox.p
Generate the QR code using the pattern —>
com.newstore.associate-one://bootstrap?live={production-tenant}&test={staging/sandbox-tenant}
For example
Example
com.newstore.associate-one://bootstrap?live=ps&test=ps-sandbox will be the code and the QR code generated will be as below.
Please do not use the below QR code for your instance.
Launch the App and Scan the QR Code generated and the application will then be bound to the tenant environment.
If the App is removed from the device the above process will need to be repeated once the Application is re-installed.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use