Integrating a fulfillment provider
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Integrating a fulfillment provider
Updated on
Apr 25, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
6 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Fulfillment represents the shipment of one or more items of an order to the customer. A fulfillment provider is an entity that can fulfill orders. For example, a
distribution center
's
WMS
or
OMS (Order Management System)
.
How fulfillment works
Let's consider an example with an request that contains 2 items, sent to Location A, a distribution center (DC). Location B is another DC in the same fulfillment configuration.
Acceptance scenario:
Partial rejection scenario:
Rejection scenario:
Cancelation scenario:
NewStore sends a fulfillment request to Location A.
If Location A
accepts the request
, all items are packed and shipped. The fulfillment provider updates NewStore with the shipping status.
If Location A
accepts some items
, the accepted items are shipped and the fulfillment provider updates NewStore with the shipping status. For example, the fulfillment location can accept an item immediately, and wait for stock to be replenished the next day before it accepts item 2.
If Location A
rejects items
, it informs NewStore which items were rejected and why. NewStore tries to find a location that has
ATP
for all the items. If it can't, available items are shipped from this location. A new request containing only the rejected items is sent to Location B (the next best location in the fulfillment configuration). If a new location contains ATP for all items, the request is sent to the location and all the items are shipped from there.
If Location A
cancels items
, it informs NewStore which items were canceled. The allocations for the canceled items are removed immediately, and NewStore does not send them to any other location. The status of a canceled item is not displayed in NewStore Omnichannel Manager until the other items in the fulfillment request are marked as
shipped
,
rejected
, or
canceled
.
Important
Do not cancel an order if the location does not have inventory or cannot fulfill the order. Use the
Reject items method
instead. NewStore does not reroute a canceled item or order to a different store or location.
Also see
DC fulfillment BPM
for more information about the
events
related to DC fulfillment.
Important
When your order contains multiple items with the same product ID and you want to mark items as shipped, canceled, or rejected, NewStore will either pick least expensive or most expensive item first. For more details please see the
Fulfillment Provider API
.
Integrating with NewStore
To integrate NewStore with a fulfillment provider, implement the
Fulfillment provider webhooks
.
These webhooks allow the following communication between NewStore Omnichannel Cloud and your fulfillment provider.
Prerequisites
Before you start the integration, ensure that you have:
A web URL (HTTPS) where the fulfillment request can be posted. If you use different fulfillment providers at different distribution centers, ensure that you communicate the URL for each provider to NewStore. For help with configuring your distribution centers for fulfillment, use the
DC configuration API
.
An API key provided by your system to access the above URL. Insert it in the authorization header of your requests.
Receiving a fulfillment request
Based on your routing configuration, when an order is routed to a fulfillment location, NewStore Omnichannel Cloud sends a fulfillment request to the best fulfillment location, using the
Create fulfillment request webhook
.
Use the
extended_attributes
property to include custom attributes for the fulfillment request. For more information about what extended attributes you can configure, contact the
support team
.
Note
If the POST fails, the request is retried 3 times.
Accepting a fulfillment request
Call NewStore Omnichannel Cloud using the
Accept request method
.
When the shipment is sent from the location, inform NewStore. See
Shipping the package
.
Rejecting a fulfillment request
To reject an item in the request, if the location has inventory for only some items in the request and only part of the order can be fulfilled, use the
Reject items method
. Specify the IDs of the items that cannot be fulfilled and provide a rejection reason for each rejected item:
no inventory
:
ATP
for the items that were rejected is set to 0 at the location. NewStore Omnichannel Cloud finds the next best location that has ATP for all items in the order, and reroutes the order. A new fulfillment request is sent to the next location using the
Create fulfillment request webhook
. If a location cannot be found, available items are shipped from this location, and a new request is sent for the rejected items.
cannot fulfill
: NewStore Omnichannel Cloud does not send additional requests to this location for this order, and reroutes to the next best location, based on the fulfillment configuration.
Important
To reject the
entire fulfillment request
use the
Reject items method
and include all the items in the request to reject fulfillment. Specify either
no_inventory
or
cannot_fulfill
as the rejection reason for each item.
To check the status of your rejections on NewStore's side, use the
Get rejection status method
.
Note
A fulfillment location can reject a request even
after
it has accepted a request if it has insufficient inventory for one or more items, or cannot fulfill the request because of other business issues. However, you cannot reject an item in a fulfillment request if the item is marked as
shipped
.
Canceling a fulfillment request
To cancel an item or the complete fulfillment request, use the
Cancel items method
. The allocations for these items are removed immediately and NewStore does not send them to another location.
However, you cannot cancel an item in a fulfillment request if the item is marked as
shipped
or
rejected
.
To check the status of your cancelations on NewStore's side, use the
Get item cancellation status method
.
Note
The status of a canceled item is not displayed in NewStore Omnichannel Manager until the other items in the fulfillment request are marked as
shipped
,
rejected
, or
canceled
.
Shipping the package
Notify NewStore Omnichannel Cloud using the
Update shipping status method
, when a fulfillment location sends a shipment for the fulfillment request. You can send a notification for a single product or for multiple products in the shipment.
Note
A
201
response does not always signify that the item(s) have been marked as shipped. A shipment request may be rejected, and you need to follow the next step to ensure that the items have been actually shipped.
Check the status of your shipments on NewStore's side using the
Get shipment status method
.
Ensure that you check the payload for both
successful_shipments
and
failed_shipments
properties to verify that the items marked as shipped have actually been shipped.
Ideally, your integration workflow should perform these 2 steps together in sequence to ensure no errors persist with shipments.
Shipping transfer orders
You can configure the platform to manage the transfer of inventory from a given store to a specified set of receiving locations such as stores or DCs.
Before creating this configuration, ensure that:
You have set up your stores and DC. See the
tutorial
.
You have created a fulfillment configuration for your business. See the
tutorial
.
To set up the transfer configuration:
Know your fulfillment configuration. You can display it using the
Get fulfillment configuration method
.
Create a transfer configuration using the
Add transfer shipping configuration method
and provide the
same
service levels and priority as used in your fulfillment configuration.
To view the transfer config set up for your business, use the
Get transfer shipping configuration
method.
For more information, see
the transfer order tutorial
.
Note
If you are not using store fulfillment in your business, you still need a fulfillment config and a transfer config to ship transfer orders from your stores. See the
tutorial
.
Related topics
Fulfillment requests
About order fulfillment
About order routing
Integrating a shipping provider
Tutorial: Setting up a fulfillment configuration (Legacy method)
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
DC fulfillment
endless aisle
ERP integration
fulfillment
integration
order
order fulfillment
order management
platform
routing
shipping
store
store fulfillment
transfer
warehouse
warehouse fulfillment
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use