Remote Cart
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Remote Cart
Updated on
May 5, 2025
Published on Dec 31, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Introduction
The Remote Cart is a helpful way to meet customers where they are most comfortable making their purchasing decisions, enabling your associates to make sales through additional remote channels. Combined with NewStore’s Clienteling solution associates have all the tools they need to foster healthy relationships with customers and empower them to purchase the products that they love, remotely.
With Remote Carts via the Associate App, customers can:
View cart details shared with them, such as products, taxes, discounts, total prices, and so on.
Pay remotely via any of the payment methods set up and supported by the
Adyen Pay By Link
configuration for your
merchant account
within Adyen.
Automatically receive payment receipts immediately after paying for an order.
What is a Remote Cart?
From the perspective of the Associate App, a Remote Cart is simply a normal Cart designed to be connected to an existing Customer & Clienteling Conversation. It can have items added to it by the associate and shared with the customer at any time for feedback. When the customer is ready to make a purchase, the associate can assign the correct address to the cart and send a final purchasing link that the customer can execute upon.
Any associate leveraging the Associate App for in-store purchases will find the Remote Cart familiar, it’s mostly the same app-flow after all!
Creating a Remote Cart
To create a remote cart for a customer:
Log into the app.
Tap
and tap
Search
to find the customer you want to offer clienteling support to.
Tap
Message
to open the customer's chat screen.
Tap
. A new remote cart is created for the customer.
To add products to the remote cart, scan the items or select them from the catalog.
Send the Remote Cart to the customer any time by tapping
Share
Warning
Gift Cards cannot be added or sold as products when creating remote carts within clienteling. Gift cards can only be sold in-store. Payments for remote carts are done using external payment links and payment pages, and as such the remote payment process occurs outside of the NewStore platform.
Adding Items to a Remote Cart
Items can be added to a Remote Cart in all the ways that a normal Cart supports:
The associate may scan an item in store.
The associate may use the Catalog to search for and add a specific item.
Items will appear in the Remote Cart as they are added and the associate can decide to share changes with the customer at any point for feedback. Associates can remove items from the Remote Cart as they would with a normal Cart, by selecting the item and tapping “Remove”.
Adding Delivery to a Remote Cart
While a Remote Cart can be shared with a customer at any time for feedback, they will only be able to actually purchase the items if a delivery option has been selected and added to the Remote Cart by the associate. To add delivery:
Navigate to the Remote Cart screen (seen above)
Select Add Delivery
Select an existing address or enter a new address for this customer profile.
Select a delivery option (Ex:// Standard or Express)
Select to add the Delivery to the Remote Cart.
You will notice that once a Delivery option has been added to the Remote Cart it’s interface will change to show that it is ready to be purchased by the customer.
Remember, Customers cannot purchase a remote cart if it does not have a Delivery option set!
Remote Cart Payment
When associates share a link to the Remote Cart with a customer, it takes them to the cart screen. The cart screen shows a summary of items in the remote cart along with their prices. The customer can reply to the associate to make any changes or proceed to make a payment.
When the customer makes a payment for items in the remote cart, associates will see a message in the chat screen that the customer has made a payment via remote checkout link.
A sales receipt is sent to the customer via NewStore Associate App immediately after payment, and the remote cart along with its items is removed from the customer's chat screen.
Important
When working with Remote Carts as part of Clienteling transactions, changes to the cart will be reflected in the underlying payment link. If the store associate makes a change to the cart (by adding or removing items) the cart page should be re-shared with the customer. This will also update the associated payment link so that it reflects changes in the total cart value.
Saving a Remote Cart for Later
If the associate needs to help another customer while in the process of building a Remote Cart for a Clienteling customer, they can temporarily save the Remote Cart at any point and come back to it later. To do this simply select “Exit” and the Associate App will automatically keep track of this Remote Cart while the associate is able to use the app to help others.
To bring the saved Remote Cart back, simply navigate back to the Clienteling conversation with the customer and select “Remote Cart” again. The Associate App will automatically load the saved details.
Note
All items in saved remote carts are cleared after midnight each day to avoid the risk of incorrect
ATP
and pricing of products in the NewStore Associate App.
Automatic Remote Cart Cleanup
A Remote Cart & their items are removed to prevent clutter in the app in the following scenarios:
The customer pays for all items in the remote cart using the link shared.
The remote cart expires after midnight of the same day when the cart was created, based on the timezone of the store's location.
The associate deletes all the items from the remote cart.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use