Archive - Omnichannel Manager updates
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Archive - Omnichannel Manager updates
Published on Apr 1, 2025
11 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
An archive for release notes for Omnichannel Manager, older than 2024. For the latest Omnichannel Manager updates, see
Omnichannel Manager updates
.
December 2023
Creating cycle counts
Retailers can now create cycle counts in Omnichannel Manager, to audit inventory frequently and keep an accurate count in their stores. For more information, see
Creating a count
.
Timing and wave data for store fulfillment activities in Insights
The Activities data model has the following new fields, which can be used for all searches:
Wave identifier
Fulfillment events: created at, started at, picked at, printed at, ready at, handed over at, and cancelled at - all in local and UTC times
Using this data, the
Template - Fulfillment
liveboard introduces the following charts:
Fulfillment Time Buckets
: Allows Operations to optimize the time spent by sales associates on fulfillment activities by viewing the minutes/hours/days spent on store fulfillment for a given location.
Neglected BOPIS Orders
: Allows the Retail business to understand and take action on BOPIS items that are holding up valuable inventory.
To take advantage of these new charts, make a fresh copy of the
Template - Fulfillment
in Omnichannel Insights, or inform retailers of this update in the default report.
Open beta release of the Customer Dashboard
The
Customer Dashboard
is a built-in report in Insights that provides store managers and retail operations customer-focused metrics to deliver real-time insights into how customer segments influence retail sales. Retailers gain a deep understanding of customer segmentation and its direct impact on sales behavior, can make informed decisions based on real-time data, allowing for targeted marketing efforts and improved customer engagement, and can identify both positive and negative influences on sales, enabling swift adjustments to maximize revenue. Retailers can customize the dashboard to their liking by making a copy and removing/adding new widgets and metrics based on their specific needs.
Note that this is an open beta release meaning that the dashboard will be enhanced based on user feedback.
Merging customer profiles
Retailers can now merge 2 customer profiles into 1 in Omnichannel Manager. This feature provides an efficient and user-friendly experience in removing duplicate customers and improves customer data management. For more information, see
Merging customer profiles
.
November 2023
Managing cycle counts in Omnichannel Manager
Retailers can now view and manage cycle counts effectively in Omnichannel Manager. NewStore has introduced the following improvements to managing cycle counts within Omnichannel Manager:
Filtering cycle counts: Retailers can now filter cycle counts by their status. The counts that are overdue are highlighted in red color.
Canceling cycle counts: Retailers can now cancel a cycle count that is currently in a
Pending
or
In Progress
status.
Note
Your content goes here
note
This feature needs the permission
Cancel a cycle count
to be assigned to a user role before they can cancel a count via Omnichannel Manager.
Consolidating count adjustment transactions: Count adjustment transactions that impact the stock by either increasing and decreasing the stock are now consolidated into a single transaction. This improves visibility into count adjustments for retailers.
Audit trail for cycle counts: Retailers can now observe on the
inventory audit trail
page when a product was counted with no variance, displaying a quantity of
0
.
Promotions data is now available in Omnichannel Insights
Retail teams and store managers can now report on how a specific promotion performed including breaking down individual associate or store performance for that campaign. Also, operations can keep an eye on employee discounts to look for abuse.
To achieve this, the new activity type
discounts
allows you to filter on promotion activities. The following promotions data is available in Omnichannel Insights:
Discounts Type
: The method at which a discount is applied. Typically percentage or fixed rate.
Discounts Coupon Code
: The coupon code that was applied to the item or order.
Discounts Creation Date
: The date at which the promotion was applied in GMT-0.
Discounts Level
: The level at which a discount is applied. Typically order or item level.
Discounts Price Adjustment
: The change to the price that a given discount is providing.
Discounts Promotion ID UUID
: The unique NewStore platform identifier of the promotion.
Discounts Reason
: What is entered into the associate app when applying a manual discount during checkout or the name of the coupon.
Discounts Rate
: The rate at which an item is discounted based on the discount effect. For example, the fixed rate value or the percentage.
Data tracked in local time by location
With the introduction of the new
Activity Date
field, all activities are tracked in local time by store, allowing headquarters to understand daily sales using a single sales dashboard across multiple time zones. Also, headquarters staff can now view store performance for a single day regardless of the time zone of the store. For example, they can see how all their stores performed for their Wednesday.
Templates have been updated to use the new
Activity Date
. You can make fresh copies of the templates to automatically receive the improvements. To migrate custom dashboards, change all dates to
Activity Date
.
The following has changed in the
Activity Date
:
Activity Date
now reflects the local conversion of time using the
Location Timezone
. If the
Location Timezone
is not set, it falls back first to the
HQ Timezone
, or if unset, to UTC time zone.
The old
Activity Date
is now titled
Activity Date UTC
, and
should no longer be used
.
Activity Date (w/ Offset)
has not changed and
should no longer be used
.
To use this improvement, make sure that you have a time zone set for each store.
October 2023
Report sales based on the attributed associate
In
Omnichannel Insights
>
Explore
, the
Daily Sales
template now allows you to use the
attributed associate
instead of the
ringing associate
for the sales metrics.
Retailers now just have to make a new copy of the
Template - Daily Sales
, or change the filter on their liveboard from
Sale Ringing Associate Name
to
Sale Attributed Associate Name
.
In the sales report, retailers will now see the following updates to differentiate between the ringing associate and the attributed associate.
Sale Associate Name
is now
Sale Ringing Associate Name
- Updated column
Sale Associate ID
is now
Sale Ringing Associate ID
- Updated column
Activity Attributed Associate Name
- New column
Sale Attributed Associate Name
- New column
Sale Attributed Associate ID
- New column
For more information, see
Getting started
and
Using sales attribution for item
documentation.
Promotions and coupons for specific customer groups
Retailers can now specify if certain promotions or coupons will only be available to specific customer segments or groups. For example, retailers can decide to offer a promotion of 50% discount on orders for their VIP customers or gold card members.
For more information on how to create promotions or coupons that only apply to specific customer groups, see
Creating automatic promotions
and
Creating coupons
.
Tracking codes and transfer IDs in the inventory transaction export
Retailers can now find the shipment tracking codes and the IDs of transfer transactions in the CSV file export so they can analyze their inventory transfer operations per transfer and parcel.
For more information, see
Exporting inventory transaction data
.
September 2023
Appease shipping fee on fully returned orders
In NewStore Omnichannel Manager, the
Refund
button is now visible on orders with a status of
Returned
. This allows users to perform appeasement refunds on orders that have been fully returned but still have a payment balance available to be refunded to the customer. For example, customer service representatives can now refund shipping fees on a returned order.
Viewing system logs in Audit Log
Audit Log
is now available to all retailers under
Tools
>
Audit Log
in Omnichannel Manager. The audit log provides a detailed log of certain actions taken in Omnichannel Manager and other parts of the NewStore platform. These logs can be used for debugging purposes, to understand when changes were performed.
For more information, see
Montoring audit logs
.
Added view customers permission
When using the
View customers
permission, retailers can now have role-based access control over the customer pages in Omnichannel Manager under
Settings
>
Users & Roles
>
Roles
. For more information, see
Managing users and roles
and
Managing customer information
.
Templates Editor
Templates Editor is now available to all retailers under
Tools
>
Templates Editor
in Omnichannel Manager. For more information, see
Managing templates
.
Managing API clients
Retailers can now use Omnichannel Manager to manage their API clients to access NewStore's API. For more information, see
this guide
.
Managing Single Sign-On (SSO)
Retailers can now use Omnichannel Manager to view and manage SSO via their identity provider(s). To understand how to set up SSO via self-service, see
Identity Management Integration
.
Sales metrics in Associate App
Note
This is an
early access
to the
Sales Dashboard
feature so expect some enhancements in the upcoming releases.
Retailers can
only
enable the
Sales Dashboard
globally across all the stores in their business, and not for individual stores.
The dashboard provides the associates and the store managers with helpful insights on individual and store performance. Using this data retailers can make strategic business decisions.
The sales dashboard is configured and ready to be activated on your production environment as a customization component. You can choose when to enable it for your business, see
Using NewStore Associate App for sales metrics
.
August 2023
Exclusive discounts
Retailers can now offer discounts to customers that are not combined with any other discounts or promotions.
NewStore also applies the best price applicable for the customer in such scenarios, where the coupon or promotion that offer the maximum savings for the customer is selected. See
Calculating best price for exclusive promotions
.
Searchable automatic promotions and coupons
HQ business users can now search through automatic promotions, coupons, and coupon definitions in Omnichannel Manager. When you search for an item, the search also returns all promotions or coupons that the item is a part of.
Omnichannel Insights for reporting and performance metrics
NewStore has added multiple improvements to the
Omnichannel Insights
feature in Omnichannel Manager, for store managers and retail HQ business users to better visualize and track data around store performance and business metrics.
For more information on how to use this feature, see
Managing Omnichannel Insights
.
Share specific liveboards with data users
Reporting, data analytics, and operations typically need more features, better charts, and the ability to understand a trend based on deep data analysis. However, there are many users in Omnichannel Manager who are focused on store performance, focused on execution of specific business key performance indicators, such as sales numbers, top-selling products, or understanding upsell opportunities.
For these store focused users there is now a simple way to only share the liveboards and metrics that they care about, allowing them to focus on store and associate performance.
See
Viewing reports
.
Omnichannel and fulfillment liveboards
Retailers can now use two new omnichannel and fulfillment liveboards on the
Insights > Explore
page in Omnichannel Manager.
Use these 2 default liveboards to understand how items are routed for fulfillment and the specifics of your omnichannel adoption. Open a liveboard, click.
..
in the top right corner, and
Make a copy
for yourself to be able to modify and share reports in your business.
Adopt the new Activities data model for additional data and a faster experience
Retailers can now select, make a copy of, and edit the
Omnichannel Insights
templates in the
Insights > Explore
page in Omnichannel Manager.
This feature helps HQ business users in searching data to create reports based on the
Activities
data source. For more information, see
Searching and pinning data to a liveboard
.
June 2023
Payment details report
Retailers can now see a default
Payment Details
report and a new payments data set by navigating to the
Insights > Explore
page in Omnichannel Manager.
This report helps HQ business users compare and reconcile payments data between NewStore and the third-party systems such as an ERP, Adyen, and so on. They can also check all cash transactions performed at a given store for a specific period of time.
For more information on using liveboards, see
Managing Omnichannel Insights
.
Omnichannel Insights
Omnichannel
Insights
, the next generation business reporting for your business from NewStore is now available upon request for core platform users.
Insights viewers can see a
Sales Overview
static dashboard and be able to filter down to their stores.
An
Explore
liveboards page provides HQ and regional managers a real-time view of what's happening across the business. Retailers can create their own views using their data and then slice it in a way that is the most meaningful to their business, or reuse the
Sales Overview
default dashboard in Omnichannel Manager to get started.
For more information, see
Managing Omnichannel Insights
.
A new template for hang tags
Retailers can select and customize a new template called
hangtag
, which is now available in the
Tools > Templates Editor > Template
in Omnichannel Manager. They can customize this template to publish in-store hang tags with custom prices.
For more information to configure the template, see
Customizing a template
and to configure the Associate App settings, see
Printing in-store hang tags using additional pricebooks
.
March 2023
Store-specific promotions
Retailers can now select specific stores where certain coupons will be available. See
Creating a coupon
.
Developer Tools
Retailers can now use the
Tools
section in Omnichannel Manager to view logs and other development metrics for their business. For example, they can use the
Event Stream Logs
to identify the status of a specific event for relevant integrations with the platform.
For more information, see
Using developer tools
.
February 2023
Carton identifiers
Retailers can now see the IDs of the cartons received from another location by navigating to the
Store Operations
>
Inventory
>
ASNs
> ASN details page in NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
Improved coupons imports
After our recent batch of improvements, retailers can now import 2 million coupons in about 10 seconds, even with a slow internet connection. A slow internet connection therefore no longer causes timeouts and import failures.
Legacy coupons
The deprecation of the legacy Coupons API was
extended
from March 31, 2023 to
June 15, 2023
. We recommend that you migrate to the new coupons framework as soon as possible.
January 2023
Store-specific promotions
Retailers can now select specific stores where certain promotions will be available. See
Creating automatic promotions
.
New coupons framework
Retailers can now create and manage coupons via NewStore Omnichannel Manager, without having to create coupon definitions beforehand. See
Creating coupons
.
Important
The legacy method to
create and use coupons and coupon definitions
is now deprecated with the
sunset date planned for March 31, 2023
. If you are using legacy coupons, we recommend that you migrate to the new coupons framework soon.
Refunding items to appease customers
Retailers can now use NewStore Omnichannel Manager to pr
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use