Platform updates
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Platform updates
Updated on
Jul 17, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
14 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Contains information about changes and updates to the NewStore platform, including NewStore Omnichannel Cloud.
Jun 2025
External identifier EPC emitted during purchases in the app or returns
Release Date: Jun 30, 2025
NewStore now emits the external identifier EPC (Electronic Product Code) when:
In-store purchase orders are created by scanning the QR code on RFID product tags (that include the EPC). This EPC value appears in the
order.created
event. See the
Event Stream Configuration API
.
Products that were sold or fulfilled by scanning the QR code on RFID product tags (that include the EPC), and are returned. This EPC value appears in the
return.processed
event. See the
Event Stream Configuration API
.
Default order ID is used if external order identifier sequence is not configured
Release Date: Jun 5, 2025
When setting up NewStore, if the order sequence for the external order Identifier is not set, a default ID using UUID v7 will be assigned. Once the sequence is configured, orders will stop using this default ID. See
Basic platform configuration
.
External identifier epc emitted when orders fulfilled
Release Date: Jun 4, 2025
When orders are fulfilled by scanning the QR code on RFID product tags (that include the Electronic Product Code (EPC)), the system now emits the external identifier
epc
. The value appears in the
order.serial_numbers_added
event when the order is handed over to the carrier or customer. See
Event Stream Configuration API
.
May 2025
New event in Event Stream for customer profile updates
Release Date:
May 12, 2025
A new event
order.customer_profile_amended
is now part of the NewStore Event Stream. This event ensures that third-party systems receive real-time updates when the customer profile linked to an order is modified. It is triggered when an order’s customer profile is updated and GraphQL queries will now return the
latest
customer profile instead of the one that was added to the order during order placement.
Any existing Event Stream integration that subscribes to all events will automatically receive this event starting
May
12,
2025
.
To enable this event via Omnichannel Manager, go to the
Event Stream
>
Orders
>
customer_profile_amended
, or use the
Event Stream Configuration API
.
April 2025
Receipt Updates for Spain
Release Date: April 22, 2025
NewStore now supports enhanced receipt generation capabilities for retailers operating in Spain, allowing the issuance of both Factura Simplificada (Simplified Invoice) and Factura Completa (Complete Invoice). This enhancement aids retailers in their compliance with Spanish fiscal regulations and provides greater flexibility in receipt management. Retailers already operating stores in Spain must complete the required fiscal activation for each store through the NewStore Omnichannel Manager. Refer to our
documentation
for detailed instructions on enabling and configuring this feature.
February 2025
Increased event replays to 60 days
Release Date: Feb 10, 2025
Events generated in the NewStore platform within the last 60 days can now be replayed freely. This extends the time window for resolving synchronization issues. By allowing at least 60 days to replay events, this should provide enough time to discover, understand, and then replay missing events before the window of replayability is closed.
January 2025
Worldline Payments Support
Release date: Jan 27, 2025
NewStore now supports Worldline as a POS payment provider in Europe. This integration enhances the NewStore POS system by enabling seamless cash-and-carry payment transactions, providing a reliable and efficient solution for in-store purchases. This integration leverages the Worldline payment gateway which enables support for multiple payment acquirer platforms in Europe. See the docs for configuration guidance.
Requires Associate App v1.59.0 or higher.
Full count and selling strategy
Release date: Jan 21, 2025
NewStore advises against selling when performing a full count. However, if a retailer chooses to continue selling during the count, the newly introduced
Full Count Strategy
configuration ensures that the platform will compare the counted quantities with either the initial expected stock on hand or the updated expected stock on hand quantities, depending on when the store is open to shoppers. See the docs on
configuration
.
October 2024
Cash rounding now applied to cash refunds
Release date: Oct 07, 2024
Cash refunds in regions where cash rounding is enabled will now follow the same rounding logic that has been implemented for the sales flow.
This feature is available across
all
Associate App versions.
September 2024
Templates renderer now uses a default CSS as a fallback mechanism
Release date
: Sep 24, 2024
The template renderer will now fall back to the default stylesheet and font if the customer-provided one cannot be fetched from an external resource. For more information, see
Customizing a template
.
August 2024
Expanded image support for clienteling
Clienteling chat conversations now support PNG images in addition to JPEG, offering associates greater flexibility in sharing product visuals, enhancing conversations, and boosting engagement.
This feature is available across
all
Associate App versions.
July 2024
Tax exemptions available in Italy
Release date
: July 31, 2024
Italian laws require that tax exemption codes for each exempt item be declared at checkout and printed on the receipt by fiscal printers. Retailers in Italy can now apply tax exemptions, offering tax relief to specific groups, such as diplomats or in special economic zones, thus enhancing customer satisfaction and ensuring tax compliance.
Retailers can configure the tax exemption categories and codes to comply with these regulations and update them when they are revised by the tax authorities. For more information see
Tax exemptions in Italy
.
Revamped customer profile screens
Feature release reminder
This is a
reminder
to enable the new customer profile screens in Associate App. We revamped and enhanced the customer profile screens in Associate App earlier, part of a redesign process to make it easier for associates to find, create, and assign customers to a profile.
Enhancements include:
Direct Access
: Access customer profiles from the cart, or when creating a customer that already exists.
Streamlined Creation
: Auto-populate fields when creating new profiles from the Search screen.
Simplified Address Management
: Create, update, or delete customer addresses quickly.
Enhanced Scanning Capability
: The app scanner can identify customer information from scanned codes.
Quick Assignment
: Assign customers to a cart directly from the search results.
Phone Number Validation
: Ensure accurate phone number formats (E.164).
Flexible Naming Formats
: Support both first and last name fields, as well as a single full name field.
Customization Opportunities
: Customize customer profiles to fit your specific needs, such as
Field Creation
: Create fields like customer notes, birthday dates, and loyalty ID for clienteling.
Webviews Integration
: Leverage webviews for greater flexibility and individual needs, such as displaying additional customer details or integrating with your eCommerce platform or CRM systems.
Important
All future enhancements and new features will be developed
exclusively
for the new screens. To enable the new customer profile screens, see
Enabling new customer profile screens
.
Enhanced features in Customer API v2
Enhanced support for customer name fields
If needed, retailers can keep using the
first_name
and
last_name
fields instead of switching to the
full_name
field when migrating to
Customer API v2
.
See the
migration guide
for more details.
Enhanced phone number validation
Feature release reminder
Customer API v2 now includes an enhanced phone number validation feature. This validation ensures the accuracy, reach, and quality of customer data by conforming to the E.164 standard, which requires a
+
sign followed by the country code and the national number.
See
Phone numbers
.
This will also affect imported orders where phone numbers for new customers are automatically converted to the E.164 format with 99.93% accuracy. The remaining invalid entries are saved in an extended attribute of the customer profile. See
Customer profile
.
Enhanced Offline Mode support in fiscal countries
Release date: July 10, 2024
NewStore now supports fiscalizing offline orders in select fiscal countries. Retailers operating in fiscal countries can now configure their fiscalization signing strategy for offline orders in supported fiscal countries. The fiscalization strategies can now be configured via the Omnichannel Manager, for more information check the
Manage Offline Mode Settings In Fiscal Countries
section in the
Omnichannel Manager updates
.
Minnesota retail delivery fee
Release date: July 1, 2024
NewStore now provides support for the retail delivery fee imposed on eligible deliveries that are shipped to an address in Minnesota, USA. This fee is automatically provided by the tax provider and displayed on the receipt for the order.
March 2024
Exporting product and pricebook data
Retailers can now export product and pricebook data into CSV files that are available offline for reconciliation or validation. See
Exporting product data
and
Exporting pricebook data
.
February 2024
Multiple identity providers for external identity information
Retailers can now configure multiple external identity providers via the
external_integration
>
post_login_callback_urls
property in the
Associate App configuration api
to call specific URLs and retrieve external identity information in a response payload.
For more information, see
Example payload and response
.
Taxes breakdown improvement
Associates can view the breakdown of taxes for orders and items in the order in Associate App without having the new
tax exemption functionality enabled
. For more information, see
Displaying tax breakdown for an order
.
Receipts improvement
The QR code in receipts now include a
Powered by NewStore
text to help identify orders generated by the NewStore platform, and socialize the brand with retailers and associates better.
January 2024
Custom address completion in Associate App
Retailers can now use a new customization feature in Associate App to use their preferred location or address provider (such as
Google Maps
or
AWS Location Service
) for address completion in the app. This is exclusive of the default
Apple Mapkit
location provider services that the app uses by default to complete addresses.
For more information, see
Configuring custom address completion
.
Tax breakdown in Associate App
When the new tax exemption functionality
is enabled
for your business, associates can view the breakdown of taxes for orders and items in the order in Associate App. See
Displaying tax breakdown for an order
.
Fiscal support in India
Retailers can now operate in India, compliant with the fiscal requirements in the country. This includes:
Generating consecutive receipt numbers to be printed on sales, return, and exchange receipts
Splitting exchanges into separate sale and return fiscal transactions to create two distinct receipts in exchange templates.
September 2023
Third-party promotion engine
Retailers can now use a third-party promotion engine to set up and manage discounts and promotions in their business. The discounts and promotions you set up in the third-party promotion engine are applied to the order or cart in Associate App automatically.
Important
You cannot use the native promotion engine at NewStore if you decide to use a third-party promotion engine to manage your discounts and promotions.
For more information, see
Integrating a third-party promotion engine
.
Single Sign-On self-service
NewStore has now enabled retailers to set up Single Sign-On (SSO) for access and management of NewStore apps and authentication through your preferred identity provider via self-service.
Note
NewStore currently supports these identity providers: Google, Okta or Microsoft.
After configuration, your users can log into the NewStore apps using their existing accounts from one of the above service providers. This change does not affect the current login experience for your users.
For more information on configuring and managing SSO, see this
guide
.
API Client Self-Service
API Client self-service is a new process of accessing NewStore APIs. It uses industry best practices and makes connecting to our API methods easier and safer. To get started, follow the process documentation
here
.
Sales metrics in Associate App
Note
This is an
Early Access
version of the
Sales Dashboard
feature so expect some enhancements in the upcoming releases.
Retailers can
only
enable the
Sales Dashboard
globally across all the stores in their business, and not for individual stores.
Associates in the store can now view detailed metrics on sales and business performance in the
Sales Dashboard
within Associate App. The dashboard automatically displays data for the current day based on the store's local timezone. The dashboard also allows associates and store managers to view the sales performance of their store.
Currently, the dashboard has been enabled for all retailers in their
Staging
environment for testing and training purposes. To view the sales dashboard, in Associate App, tap
Selling
>
More
>
Sales Dashboard
.
The sales dashboard is configured and ready to be activated on your production environment as a customization component. You can choose when to enable it for your business, see
Using NewStore Associate App for sales metrics
.
August 2023
Tax exemption improvements
Retailers can now configure custom tax exemption class mappings, which allows them to exempt certain taxes by creating custom tax rules with tax providers (
Avalara AvaTax
or
Vertex
). For more information on enabling the new tax exemption functionality and setting up tax exemption class mapping for a tax provider, see the
new tax exemption configuration guide
.
Retailers can also retrieve the tax exemption information by using the
Taxes Integration API
. For more information on retrieving the tax exemption information, see the
tax information retrieval guide
.
New fulfillment routing configuration
You can now use 2 new APIs, the
Routing ruleset
API and
Service levels
API to set up your fulfillment configuration. This new version of fulfillment configuration gives you more flexibility around updating or tweaking your fulfillment strategy, with efficient usage of location groups and zip code regions.
Note
You will still need to use the
legacy fulfillment configuration API
to set up provider rates and their priority.
For more information, see the
tutorial
.
Support for Tap to Pay on iPhone in the UK
NewStore now supports using
Tap to Pay on iPhone
as a payment method in the UK. Customers can now use this payment method to pay for orders during the checkout process in Associate App in stores in the UK.
For more information, see
Setting up Tap to Pay on iPhone
.
June 2023
Puerto Rico fiscal support
As part of improved internationalization support, retailers can now operate on the NewStore platform in Puerto Rico, in compliance with the fiscal regulations from the tax agency in Puerto Rico.
May 2023
NewStore supports custom tax calculations
NewStore partners with leading tax providers that specialize in tax compliance, so the retailers can efficiently manage their taxes. However, if the retail business opts not to use Avalara and Vertex, our custom tax provider enables the retailer to calculate taxes and transmit the information back to NewStore during the checkout process.
NewStore supports AvaTax API v2 connector
NewStore is now integrated with the latest
Avalara AvaTax
API v2 connector.
All retailers using Avalara have been migrated on AvaTax API v2 connector automatically. For retailers with custom implementations of AvaTax API v1 interface, the tax strategy configuration has been updated from
avalara
to
custom
. No further action is needed as your implementations will be fully operational.
For more information, see
Configuring settings for Avalara integration
and also the
Tax calculation API
.
March 2023
Automatic promotions are now excluded from manager approval
Like coupons, associates now do not need an explicit approval in Associate App for automatic promotions to be applied.
For more information, see
Managing order approvals
.
January 2023
Gift card cashout and balance checks
Retailers can now enable associates to check the available balance on a gift card and offer a cashout amount to customers against the gift card balance via Associate App. See
Cashing out a gift card
.
These gift card cashout transactions are also displayed in Omnichannel Manager in payment transaction reports. See
Monitoring cash transactions
.
Capacity-based routing
Retailers can now specify capacity-based routing limits for orders to be fulfilled by stores, allowing stores to not be overwhelmed with orders and missing delivery expectations. For example, you can decide to route orders for fulfillment to stores only during the open hours of business, such as from 8 am till 6 pm.
This feature allows retailers to control how much time associates spend fulfilling orders in the store, and monitor fulfillment operations across stores in their business. For more information, see
Managing capacity-based routing for stores
.
Warehouse returns
Retailers can now override the static return fee when using the
warehouse returns API
. This allows changing the return value for things like large item returns that require special handling, or items returned in used condition.
Deprecation notices
Contains information about product deprecation notices from NewStore.
Sept 2023
Deprecation of NewStore Fulfillment App
NewStore Fulfillment App is now end of life and we don't provide any further support on the app. All retailers using this app have been migrated successfully to NewStore Associate App.
For more information on managing inventory operations, see
Using NewStore Associate App to manage inventory
.
May 2023
Deprecation of the PUT tenant tax configurations v1 API
The tenant tax configuration replacement function through the PUT API has been deprecated and is not supported anymore by NewStore. Similar function can be performed through the
PATCH Partially update tenant configuration
method.
April 2023
End of Life Notice for NewStore Customer Profile v0 API
Customer Profile API "v0"
will reach the End of Live (EOL) by
1 December 2023
. Ensure that you update your integrations to use the newer version of the API before that date.
After the EOL date, the "v0" API will no longer be available and requests made to it will fail. We recommend using the latest stable version of the API to ensure the best performance and compatibility with our platform.
You can find the latest stable version (
v1
) of the API in the
API documentation
.
For more information about the changes and improvements introduced in the newer API version(s), refer to the API documentation and the migration guide.
If you have any questions or concerns, contact the
support team
or your point of contact at NewStore.
March 2023
End of Life Notice for NewStore Checkout with Web Drop-in
The web drop-in version of NewStore Checkout
will be deprecated at the end of Q1, 31 March 2023
. NO new functionalities will be added to the NewStore Checkout version that uses the web drop-in configuration. Critical bug fixes will be addressed depending on each case.
Existing customers who are currently using the existing web drop-in configuration can do so until 30 September 2023, after which it is EOL for existing configurations, and NewStore will offer no further support.
We recommend switching to the updated NewStore Checkout version using Adyen Pay by Link immediately. Follow the instructions in
this guide
to migrate to the new version of NewStore Checkout.
November 2022
End of Support for Staging Cluster 2022.12.31 (EOSL)
Release date
: November, 2022
What’s happening on December 31 2022
NewStore legacy staging environment will no longer be available or supported by NewStore
URL to be deprecated with end of support on December 31, 2022: https://manager.{brandname}.s.newstore.net/
NEW URL: https://manager.{brandname}-staging.p.newstore.net/
Benefits of using the new cluster
Staging environment reflects the exact ecosystem we run in production
More reliability, as we are adding more automation to our monitoring and alerting systems
Much faster and more stable UAT
Identical SLA on Staging and Production
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
newstore platform
platform
platform updates
release notes
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use