Customer Profile Enhancements
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Customer Profile Enhancements
Published on Mar 27, 2025
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Prerequisites
Complete the module's
Module 1 - Foundational Setup
before you proceed.
NewStore customer profile enhancements provide flexibility in managing and customizing customer information, allowing retailers to tailor customer profiles to their unique business needs. These enhancements enable associates to capture, view, and edit customer details more effectively, supporting a personalized customer experience.
Accessing customer profile customizations
To enable these customizations:
Go to
Settings > Associate App > Customizations
as an
Admin
user.
Click
Get started
or
Add
if there are existing customizations.
From this screen, you can choose between two customer profile customization options:
Customer Profile (Create/Edit):
Where associates add or modify customer information.
Customer Profile (Overview):
Where associates preview existing customer information.
Types of customization
The NewStore platform supports two types of customization for customer profiles:
Widgets
:
Used to add, edit, or display customer extended attributes on the mobile screen.
Webviews
:
Enables integration with external systems like wishlists, loyalty programs, or service tracking.
Widgets
Widgets facilitate data input and display for associates. Each widget uses a
Data Key
to fetch and store values from the customer extended attributes. The Data Key should be unique.
There are 5 types of Widgets:
Widget
Customer Profile (Create/Edit)
Customer Profile (Overview) →all fields are not editable
Typical Use case
Text box
Displays a text box for the associate to ender free form text.
Displays a text box with the data populated form the customer extended attributes. If the data is not populated, the text box will be empty.
Favorite Color
Favorite Size
Single Select
Displays a list of configured values for the associate to edit. It will a show radio button if there are 4 or less than four options configured in the single select option. If there are more than 4 options, a drop-down  menu is displayed in the UI.
Displays a drop-down menu with the value pre-populated and disabled. The associate will not be able to edit the selection from the screen.
Birth month
Customer Type
Toggle
In the toggle option, the platform can support configuring an URL typically used for privacy policy and T&C to be displayed to the customer.
Displays a toggle with on/off options disabled. The associate will not be able to edit the selection from the screen.
Marketing Opt in/out
Information
(non editable in both screens)
Displays an information section which cannot be edited from the Associate App screen. To populate the data, it needs to pull the information from the integration or API.
Displays an information section which cannot be edited from the Associate app screen.
Notes to the associate relating to the customer, for example if the customer is a Social Media Influencer
Date picker
Displays a date picker for the associate to chose. The app can support multiple formats like
full
year
month
day
month-day
year-month
Displays the selected date format as is in a non-editable format.
Birth Month
Birth date (with out year)
Membership Expiry date (only in the Customer preview screen)
While configuring the widget, the platform supports the attributes to be re-ordered. To order attributes, drag and re-arrange the attributes in the preview screen on the right side.
Webviews
Webviews provide a versatile method to integrate external systems into the customer profile. Common use cases include:
Loyalty sign-up
Wishlist integration
Service tracking
Gift registry
Optional authentication can be configured for secure data access.
The user can configure a webview in both the Customer Profile (Create/Edit) and the Customer Profile (Overview) screen. The NewStore platform also supports an optional authentication step that can be enabled while configuring the webview. typical use case include, Loyalty Sign up, wishlist, product recommendation, service tracking, gift registry.
Tutorial
Refer
Adding webview customizations using external authentication
to know how to enable authentication.
Refer
using data in a webview component
to understand how the data from the platfom can be used in the webview to build the required integrations.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use