Fiscal regulations in Sweden
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Fiscal regulations in Sweden
Updated on
Jan 7, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
3 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
NewStore has partnered with
Axena
to digitally record all required POS transactions via their Cloud Control Unit and register each cash register (cashbox) with the Swedish tax authority.
Fiscal activations
In stores operating in Sweden, a store must be fiscally activated before orders can be created via NewStore Associate app.
Fiscal cashbox activation
The fiscal cashbox activation process in Sweden includes the following steps:
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Registration with the tax agency
Fiscal cashbox activation in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager
Important
A store must be already created within the NewStore platform before it can be fiscally activated. For more details, see
Creating a store
.
To fiscally activate a store, a fiscal cashbox can be activated within the NewStore platform via Omnichannel Manager. For more details, see
Activating fiscal cashboxes
.
Following information is required to fiscally activate a store in Sweden:
Retailer corporate information
Corporate ID - Organisationsnummer of the retailer provided by the Swedish Companies Registration Office (Bolagsverket).
Legal entity - Name of the retailer legal entity name in Sweden.
Retailer store information
Address
City
Postal code
Registration with the tax agency
Important
Tax agency registration step is only required for cashboxes of the production tenants. For non-production tenants, the registration step can be skipped.
After the fiscal cashbox activation, the cash register information must be submitted by the legal entity to the tax agency through a registration form.
For further information:
See the cash register section within the
Skatteverket
website.
Contact
kassaregister@skatteverket.se
.
The registration form will require the fiscal activation information of the fiscal cashbox, which can be viewed from the
Cashbox Overview
screen under the
Fiscal Stores
page in the Omnichannel Manager. For more details, see
Viewing fiscal features for a store
.
Fiscal cashbox deactivation
Important
Tax fiscal cashbox deactivation and deregistration with the tax agency steps are only required for cashboxes of the production tenants. For non-production tenants, the fiscal cashbox deactivation and deregistration steps can be skipped.
When a store is no longer operational within the NewStore platform:
The fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform must be deactivated.
The cash register must be deregistered from the tax agency.
To request the deactivation of a fiscal cashbox within the NewStore platform, contact the
support team
.
Deregistration with the tax agency
Deregistration of the cash register must be reported to the tax agency through a deregistration form.
For further information:
See the cash register section within the
Skatteverket
website.
Contact
kassaregister@skatteverket.se
.
Receipts for stores
Based on fiscal regulations that apply to stores operating in Sweden, these additional features must be included in the receipts:
All receipts must have a fiscal signature, which displays the fiscal status, transaction receipt number, cash register name/identifier, and control unit serial number. To modify the fiscal signature template for Sweden, See
Customizing a template
.
The organization number or company identifier number of the retailer must be displayed in the header of the receipt.
For items exchanged by the customer, separate sales and return receipts must be generated.
After the receipt is printed or emailed to the customer, any copies of the receipt generated later display the text
COPY
in the header of the receipt.
Important
NewStore platform provides fiscal transaction information that is required to be printed in fiscal receipts. It is responsibility of the retailer to ensure compliance of the receipt templates with the local fiscal regulations.
Fiscal reports
For stores operating in Sweden, NewStore provides the following operational and sales reports via NewStore Omnichannel Manager for audit purposes:
Daily X & Z reports
E-journal export
For more information, see
Viewing fiscal reports
.
Fiscal audits
Fiscal audits are not pre-announced and can be conducted by the tax authorities at any given time at the store.
During an audit, auditors may check:
Legal documents related to fiscal regulations in the store.
Fiscal reports/exports
For more information about the fiscal reports in Sweden, see
Fiscal reports
.
Manufacturer's declaration
Fiscal regulations in Sweden require the POS provider to include the manufacturer's declaration in the product documentation. The manufacturer's declaration for Sweden submitted to the Swedish tax agency by NewStore has been included here:
Fiscalization information in Associate App
For stores operating in Sweden, the
About
screen of the app must display the Sweden software version of Associate App, for example: NewStore SE 1.0.0. The
About
screen must also contain the cash register name, production number, and control unit serial number being used in the store.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Associate App
documents
fiscal cashbox
fiscal regulations
fiscal reports
fiscal signature
fiscalization
platform
receipts
sweden
taxes
template
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use