Configuring order routing settings
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Configuring order routing settings
Updated
Updated on
Jul 17, 2025
Published on Oct 1, 2024
4 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
The way orders are routed for your business depends on a number of settings that are configurable via NewStore.
Customizing the fulfillment configuration
NewStore expects you to communicate your routing configuration requirements as a table, with a combination of fulfillment location priorities and shipping options, for each country and zip code that your business supports. Additionally, also give NewStore a priority for the shipping options that your shipping providers support.
To customize the routing configuration for your business, use the order routing configuration details to update the
fulfillment configuration
.
For a guide on how to set up the fulfillment configuration for your business, see
this tutorial
.
Setting the reservation timeout
When an order is placed in the platform, NewStore
reserves
the items specified in the order for a specified amount of time at a store or
DC
.
To view the time after which reservations have been set to expire in your business, use the
Get reservation timeout
method.
To specify when the reservation expires:
Use the
Set reservation timeout
method.
In the
reservation_timeout_seconds
property, specify the timeout value in seconds.
Important
A reservation can be set for a maximum of 3600 seconds (1 hour).
An order is routed only after the grace period ends. To prevent a reservation from expiring before the grace period has ended, ensure that this value is longer than the grace period.
Setting the safety stock
To view the
safety stock
for all the products across all fulfillment locations in your business, use the
Get safety stock
method.
Note
(Optional) You can also
manage safety stock
across locations in your business via NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
To set the safety stock for specific products in a fulfillment location, or for all products in a specified location, use the
Set safety stock
method.
See this
example CSV
for more information. You can upload a new or updated CSV file with a maximum size of 10 MB.
After you set the safety stock, NewStore updates the ATP for the specified products, and does not wait for the next stock import to the location.
If a product has stock on hand less than
1
, it implies that the ATP for the product is
0
. When you set the safety stock for the product, NewStore does not update the ATP and does not immediately use the updated safety stock in the platform. The updated safety stock is used in the NewStore platform when the ATP and stock on hand for the product are updated, based on the next:
Stock import
Inventory transaction
Manual routing
of an order containing the product
Note
When setting the safety stock, if the file in the request is larger than 200 KB, you may receive a timeout error. However, the safety stock is still applied and ATP is updated for the specified products. To verify if the safety stock was set correctly, check the
safety stock levels
for the specified products in NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
To update the safety stock for products in a fulfillment location, use the
Set safety stock
method again with the updated values. The safety stock data is overwritten.
Setting the grace period
At NewStore, you can set the
grace period
for a maximum of 3000 seconds.
A grace period set for a specific service level in the
fulfillment configuration
overrides the value you set for orders. For example, if the grace period is set to 1200 seconds for all orders, and the service level
Same day delivery
is set to 120 seconds, the grace period for items being shipped with service level
Same day delivery
is always 120 seconds.
If no grace period is defined for orders or for a service level, a default grace period of
20
seconds is used before an order is routed or processed further.
Important
An in-store purchase order has a fixed grace period of
2
seconds.
For orders with multiple items or a
mixed cart
order, the shortest grace period applicable for any of the items is applied to the order. For example, if an order has an item being fulfilled from a
DC
, and another item being purchased in-store, the grace period for the in-store purchase item (which is the shortest) is applied to the order.
To view the grace period configured for orders in your business, use the
Get grace period for orders
method.
To set the grace period:
Use the
Create grace period for orders
method.
In the
value
property, specify the grace period in seconds. The maximum limit for grace period is 3000 seconds (50 minutes).
Enabling order routing features
You following properties to specify order routing features can be configured at NewStore:
Property
Description
reroute_to_rejected_fulfillment_nodes
When a fulfillment request is rejected at a location or an
order conflict is managed <nom-onhold>
via NewStore Omnichannel Manager using the
Handle Exception
button, the order is rerouted immediately. The fulfillment nodes that have rejected the fulfillment request are de-prioritized during this, and all future reroute operations.
However, when stock becomes available at the fulfillment locations that rejected the fulfillment request, orders may be automatically routed by NewStore to these fulfillment locations. See the next row.
enable_automatic_rerouting
Automatically attempts to reroute on-hold orders with insufficient inventory once per hour and when relevant stock becomes available.
By default, this is set to
False
. See
Automatically routing On Hold orders
.
To configure these order routing features, use the following methods:
To enable automatically routing orders to fulfillment locations that had rejected them earlier because of unavailable stock, use the
Enable automatic routing config for orders to fulfillment locations
method, and set
value
to
true
.
To retrieve the current configuration, use the
Get automatic routing config for orders to fulfillment locations
method.
To enable automatic routing of orders that are on hold because of insufficient stock, use the
Enable automatic routing config for on hold orders
method and set
value
to
true
.
To retrieve the current configuration, use the
Get automatic routing config for on hold orders
method.
Related topics
Fulfillment config in the API reference
About order routing
Configuring distribution centers
Sample data
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
api
capacity based routing
config api
delivery
Easypost
grace period
NewStore OMS
newstore platform
order management
platform
routing
routing rules
safety stock
shipping
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use