Paying for a cart
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Paying for a cart
Updated on
May 5, 2025
Published on Nov 19, 2024
8 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Once you have completed the steps described in
the guide to create a cart
, follow the steps in this section to check out the cart and get ready to receive payment from the customer.
Proceeding to pay
To check out, tap
>
Pay
.
Note
For a seamless checkout experience, we recommend that you know the approval rules configured for your business in NewStore. If your order needs approval, find an approver while you continue with the checkout process.
A summary screen appears. All the items in the shopping cart are displayed, indicating the items that are discounted. To remove a discount, tap
Discounts
.
Taxes
displays the tax amount that is applicable to the order.
In countries with tax inclusive pricing, an additional
Included in total price
message is displayed.
When tax exemption is available and applied, an additional
Tax exemption applied
message is displayed.
Ensure that all details are complete and proceed to collect payment.
Choosing a payment option
Based on the rules configured for your business in NewStore, certain orders may require approval on NewStore Associate App before the purchase can be completed.
If your order needs approval, a QR code is displayed when you choose the payment option. An approver must scan the QR code before you can proceed with the checkout. See
Managing order approvals
.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
Processing Payments
When sending payment requests to a cash drawer, payment terminal, or gift card provider, Store Associates must remain on the payment screen until the application receives confirmation back from the device that the transaction was successful. Associates should not place the iPhone in sleep mode, navigate away from the app, or turn off the iPhone. Once the payment transaction is successful, the associate is again free to navigate within the application.
To set up payment options for the retailer, see
Configuring payment options
.
Choose the payment option requested by the customer. Customers may choose to pay for their items using one of the following supported payment options, or they may choose to split the total amount due for their purchase across multiple payment options. For the best practices in using split payments for a transaction - see the section:
Applying split payments - best practices
NewStore supports the following payment options:
Gift Card
: To accept payment via a physical or virtual gift card. You can enter the card number manually if the payment service provider supports it. If the balance on the gift card is insufficient, you can accept the remaining amount via another gift card, credit card or cash payment.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
If enabled for your business, checkout can only be completed when you enter a PIN for the gift card. See
Configuring a PIN for gift cards
.
Credit Card Reader
: To accept a credit card payment using a credit card reader (or POS device).
Manual Credit Card Adyen
: To accept a credit card payment via an Adyen payment device by manually entering the credit card details.
Tap to Pay on iPhone
: To accept contactless payments via an iPhone.
If this is the first time you are accepting
Tap to Pay on iPhone
payments, see the guide on
Preparing iPhones to use Tap to Pay
.
Important
See the
NewStore hardware and software requirements
to validate the iPhone version, iOS version, and minimum NewStore Associate App version requirements.
Cash
: To accept a cash payment, enter the amount paid by the customer and tap
Accept
. The system will show the amount of change the customer should receive.
Note
If you have integrated with a cash drawer, scan the cash drawer to open it. The cash transaction is automatically logged.
If you are operating in a country where cash rounding is a compliance requirement, and this feature is enabled for your store, the app will automatically round off the total order amount.
See
Setting up cash rounding
.
Customer Phone
: To use the customer's phone and their electronic wallet to process the payment. Payments processed via the customer's phone will have
payment origin
as
NewStore Checkout
. Using NewStore Checkout allows you to charge the customer without relying on a credit card reader. Ensure the customer is fully aware of the content of the cart before initiating the payment process.
Warning
The Customer Phone payment option does not allow for Gift Cards to be purchased during the checkout and payment process. Gift Card sales must be handled as in-store transactions and cannot use the remote payment or QR code payment methods that are used within the Customer Phone option.
Important
For direct card payments or
3-D Secure
via NewStore Checkout, contact Adyen for instructions on configuring 3D Secure for Pay by Link.
This payment option requires the following:
The customer uses a phone or a device that supports a digital wallet.
The customer has an available and valid electronic wallet configured: Apple Pay, Google Pay, PayPal, or other digital wallet payment methods supported by Adyen for Pay by Link.
The customer can also pay with a credit card if this payment option is configured within Adyen Pay by Link.
The customer's phone internet access is good enough to complete the payment process.
This payment option generates a QR code in the NewStore Associate App, which the customer has to scan using the Camera app. When the customer scans the QR code, they are prompted to open a NewStore page in a browser. When they open this link, they can choose one of the payment options available to continue payment. While the customer is on the payment page completing the payment, the app stays on the page displaying the QR code until the payment is complete.
Important
If the content of the cart changes while using the
Customer Phone
payment method and you are using the QR code or the
Send Payment Link
option, then you must send a new link. Alternatively, have the customer re-scan the QR code to invalidate the original payment link and pickup the corresponding changes in the cart value.
When using the QR code or the Send Payment Link option, these payment requests are treated as In-Store payments, and as such, once the store associate sends the payment request to the customer, the associate MUST remain on the payment screen until the customer completes the payment. The store associate should not go back into the cart once a payment request has been made nor should they navigate off of the payment screen until the payment has successfully been completed.
After the customer completes the payment and receives a message confirming payment completion, the app is automatically updated and displays a summary of the completed transaction. See
Completing the purchase
.
Note
If no customer is assigned to the cart, the customer's email address and name associated with the electronic wallet or credit card are used to automatically assign the transaction to the customer profile with that email for a returning customer. A new customer profile is created if none exists yet for that email address.
External Payment
(payment method): If enabled for your business, use this method to record payments via an external payment provider that is not integrated into NewStore. Retailers can define multiple external payment methods, which associates can select to denote the various non-integrated payment options in use.
Supported from
This feature is supported from Associate App v1.51.0 and later.
When processing payments using the
External Payment
(payment method) option, follow the steps below:
Select the type of external payment. Users should select the correct external payment method that matches their payment system.
Enter the amount user wants to process using this external payment method (default behavior presents total amount due).
Tap
Proceed
.
Confirm the user has paid and they have processed the payment using the external payment system and then tap
Confirm and Checkout
. Ensure that the payment has been processed successfully before you tap
Confirm and Checkout
. NewStore does not offer any visibility into external payments or refunds for later reconciliation.
Complete the checkout process.
Note
Associates can skip selecting an
External Payment
method if it does not match the payment form preferred by the user. They can also dismiss the "Payment Methods" view and complete the checkout and payment process. NewStore will record the payment for this transaction as
External Payment
within the associate app. Within the NewStore Omnichannel Manager, event stream, and APIs, the payment method used for this transaction will be shown as
non_integrated
.
Using NewStore Checkout
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
After you have
enabled
NewStore Checkout as a payment option in the NewStore platform, ensure that it is available in NewStore Associate App.
After NewStore Checkout is configured, a
Customer Phone
button is added to the list of payment options in NewStore Associate App.
A
Send Checkout Link
button is enabled in the
Customer Phone
screen based on the action items you have configured to be executed via NewStore Checkout:
Send link via SMS
Send link via email
Copy the link to the clipboard
If the button is configured for multiple action items, a list containing these action items is displayed when you tap the
Customer Phone
button in NewStore Associate App. If only one action item is configured, tapping the button executes the action item.
For more information, see
Configuring options to share the NewStore Checkout link via the app
.
Applying split payments - best practices
Customers may choose to pay the total amount due for a transaction by using multiple payment options from those supported on the NewStore platform. When processing multiple payment options for a transaction, store associates should follow these best practices:
Process cash payments first, then credit cards (including Tap to Pay on iPhone), and then gift cards.
Ensure the customer has all necessary payment options available, as each option will go through a completion process, and once a payment is successful, it cannot be reversed.
Once the first payment is fully processed and the total amount due is reduced, that payment is considered complete.
If a customer decides not to complete a transaction, the payment cannot be reversed or canceled mid-transaction. Instead, the store associate should complete the transaction. The recommendation is to process the final payment due as cash, and then immediately process a return and refund. This will ensure the cash payment used to complete the transaction, and the initial payment(s) processed are fully refunded.
When processing the first payment in a split payment transaction, the store associate should enter the specific amount and then select
Accept
to process it. If the processed amount is less than the total due, the associate will be prompted to add the next payment option. Selecting
Next
confirms that the initial payment is completed and deducted from the total amount due.
If the store associate attempts to close the next payment screen by selecting “x”, a message will appear, alerting them that payment(s) has been processed and, they must complete the transaction and then process a return and refund to reverse the payment.
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
Adyen
cash management
credit card
external payment options
gift card
Google Pay
NewStore checkout
payment
payment device
payment options
split payment
T2P
Tap to Pay on iPhone
taxes
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use