About order fulfillment
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
About order fulfillment
Updated on
Dec 18, 2024
Published on Oct 1, 2024
5 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Fulfillment refers to the process of shipping one or more items in an order, to the customer. This is not applicable to in-store purchases, where products are handed over to the customer at checkout.
How order fulfillment works
When an order is placed, a fulfillment request is sent to the best fulfillment location, based on the
fulfillment configuration
. A
store
or a
distribution center
can be set up as a fulfillment location.
Note
Distribution centers (DCs) are created when you import stock into the NewStore platform. For help with configuring the fulfillment provider URL, the address and contact information for DCs in your business, contact the
support team
.
For each fulfillment location, fulfillment requests are placed in a queue.
Requests are sent to fulfillment associates based on each associate's availability:
Not available
: A fulfillment associate who has not logged on, does not receive requests. Requests are only sent to fulfillment associates who are logged in.
Cannot fulfill requests
: Requests are not sent to logged-in fulfillment associates if their status indicates that they cannot fulfill requests. NewStore sends the request to the next available associate at the location.
Can fulfill requests
: Requests are sent to fulfillment associates who are logged on and ready to fulfill requests.
Fulfillment request priorities
Based on the store queue priority configured in NewStore, requests are displayed to associates. The priority assigned to each shipping option and the display priority defined determine if the order is displayed in the
Priority
or
Regular
queue, in the Associate App.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
See
Stores
in the API docs.
For example,
Same day delivery
is assigned the highest priority and traditional delivery is assigned the next priority. An order placed at midnight with this option is sent to a location that the routing engine determines, even if the location is closed for business at midnight. When associates at the location log on when the store opens, the request is displayed on their device as a priority request that they must fulfill before they can choose to accept regular requests.
Accepted and declined requests
You can configure a time period within which an accepted fulfillment request must be completed. For more information, contact the
support team
.
When a request is accepted, but is not completed within the configured time-period, the order is marked
Overdue
. For example, you can configure a 30-minute slot within which an associate must pick an item and a 15-minute slot in which the associate must pack the items in a request, print documents and complete the request. For help with this configuration, contact the
support team
.
When a request is declined, it is sent to the next available associate at the location. If all the associates at a location decline the request, it stays in the queue for the fulfillment location, and is not rerouted.
For orders fulfilled by a
DC
, when an item is rejected in a fulfillment request, the
status
of the item changes to
On Hold
in NewStore Omnichannel Manager. However, the rejected item is processed in NewStore Omnichannel Cloud only after all the other items in the fulfillment request have been processed.
If a request is neither accepted nor rejected, it stays in the queue for the location, and is not rerouted. A user with permissions to the
Sales
section in NewStore Omnichannel Manager, can see the order when the orders are filtered by
Routing
or
Pending
status. For more information on NewStore Omnichannel Manager users, see
Default roles and permissions
.
Rerouted requests
When a fulfillment associate is unable to fulfill
an already accepted request
, the request is rerouted to the next best location, based on the fulfillment configuration.
If the associate
cannot find the item
, the request is rerouted and the
ATP
for the item is set to
0
at the location.
If the associate
finds an item damaged
, the ATP for the item at the location is reduced to exclude the damaged item. This action serves as a mechanism to report a change in the inventory. If the location has ATP for the damaged item, the request is routed to the location again immediately.
If the associate
finds partial inventory
for the request, NewStore does not split the order if another location can fulfill the complete order. The complete request is rerouted to a location that has all the items in stock. If NewStore cannot find another location that meets all the routing configuration settings, the items that cannot be fulfilled at the location are rerouted to the next best location.
Disabling locations from fulfilling orders
You can
disable or enable
order fulfillment in stores via NewStore Omnichannel Manager, or use an
API
to programmatically disable or enable any location from fulfilling orders. Once a location is disabled, ATP for products at the location is reset to
0
after some time.
The updated ATP for products is available while exporting availability data via the
export API
and displayed in NewStore Omnichannel Manager. However, the values calculated for stock on hand, allocations, reservations, and safety stock quantities for products at the location stay unchanged. See
Exporting stock levels
and
About order routing
.
Note
Orders routed to the location before it was disabled are fulfilled via the usual process. Use NewStore Associate App to reject these orders if needed.
Using an external OMS to fulfill orders
In some scenarios, retailers may want to continue using a legacy order management system (OMS) for primary order fulfillment tasks, and configure NewStore as the secondary OMS for their business.
To enable or disable an external OMS for your business, use this
External OMS API
.
Technical configuration
The following section involves working with technical configurations and APIs. Contact your IT support team for more information.
For more information, see the
configuration guide
.
When NewStore is the secondary OMS for your business, it provides the following features, from the perspective of order routing and fulfillment:
Order placement and returns via NewStore Associate App. Orders placed via the app are then routed to the external OMS for fulfillment.
Managing payments for in-store purchase orders.
Store fulfillment
and handling shipping for orders fulfilled via stores.
Inventory management in stores, as NewStore will be the
inventory master
in stores configured for your business.
The external or legacy OMS is responsible for the following in your business:
ATP
,
order routing
, order modifications, and customer support.
Rerouting rejected store fulfillment orders. See
Rerouted requests
.
Handling shipping for orders fulfilled from a
DC or warehouse
.
Managing payments for all order fulfillment scenarios except in-store purchases.
Related topics
Integrating a fulfillment provider
Order status
DC fulfillment BPM
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
Tags
DC fulfilment
delivery
external OMS
fulfillment
fulfillment configuration
newstore platform
order
preorder
routing
shipping
store fulfillment
warehouse
warehouse fulfillment
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use