Tracking Opt-In Status
NewStore Introduction
NewStore basics
Business process models
Hardware and software
Glossary
Mobile POS
Get to know your mPOS
Set up your mPOS
Set up omnichannel services
Engage your customers
Use your mPOS
Manage your mPOS
OMS
Get to know your OMS
Set up your OMS
Expand your OMS
Dashboards and analytics
Shopping App
Get to know your Shopping App
Customize your Shopping App
Developer Resources
Managing data in NewStore
Data reconciliation and completeness playbook
Get started with NewStore APIs
Event consumption and handling
Build custom integrations
API Reference
Omnichannel Manager tools
Platform onboarding guide
End-User Guides
Associate App User Guide
Omnichannel Manager User Guide
Search or ask anything
EXPLORE ARTICLES
Tracking Opt-In Status
Updated on
Mar 5, 2025
Published on Mar 5, 2025
2 minute(s) read
Listen
Export PDF
Print
Prev
Next
Introduction
The “Opt In Status” is used to track if any given customer has
provided their consent to be sent messages
via NewStore Clienteling. As such, it is incredibly important to understand how it works and how to leverage this information. Common uses cases include:
Building effective Clienteling Campaigns.
Tracking Clienteling funnel metrics (How many customers are opting-in/out over time etc…).
Building a holistic view of your relationship with customers.
Opt-In Vs. Opt-Out Across a Retailer
With the range of regulatory compliance complexities across country borders and Clienteling channels, NewStore aims to provide an intuitive approach to tracking if a customer is opted in or out of Clienteling. We boil it down to these rules:
A customer must opt in
per store.
The consent provided through an opt in
does not
transfer across an entire retailer. The customer must opt in to each store individually.
A customer can opt in to as many individual stores as they like across a retailer.
If a customer opts out from one store, they will be opted out from
all stores
for that retailer. By opting out they are removing their consent at the brand level and can no longer be contacted by any store via NewStore Clienteling.
If a customer opts out, they cannot be contacted by any Clienteling channel offered until they have opted back in via the best practice for the prefered channel (See below).
Opt-In Status Values
NewStore saves the status for each store that the customer opts in or out of as one of three states:
waiting
: This status represents that a store associate has sent the customer a request to begin Clienteling, and is waiting for the customer to opt in to their preferred channel.
accepted
: This status represents that a customer has accepted an invitation to Clientel with the store and can send/receive messages via their preferred channel.
rejected
: This status represents that a customer has opted out of Clienteling with the retailer. Messages cannot be sent via any Clienteling channel.
Alongside each status NewStore also tracks the time that the last update was made for record keeping purposes.
Fetching the Opt-In Status for a Specific Customer
This is not currently supported via API or in the NewStore Omnichannel Manager.
Tracking Changes to Opt-In Status
NewStore customers can set up a webhook with our Event Stream to track the
clienteling.optin_changed
event. This will send a notification every time an opt-in status for a shopper in the system changes. See our
Developer Documentation
for more information on how to configure a webhook.
How to Opt In or Out
The process through which a customer can opt in or out is documented here:
"Clienteling in the Associate App"
Was this article helpful?
Yes
No
About Us
Newsroom
Careers
Platform
Mobile POS
Omnichannel OMS
Shopping App
Hardware and Software
Stories
Point of Sale
Mobile Checkout
Endless Aisle
Clienteling
Developers
API Reference
Developer Portal
API updates
Deprecation notices
Support
Support Portal
Status
Still have questions?
We’re here to help you!
Follow Us
Platform Status
Privacy Notice for Applicants
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use